It is a common belief that the more ancient a form is, by so much the
more it tends to connect by some of its characters groups now widely
separated from each other. This remark no doubt must be restricted
to those groups which have undergone much change in the course of
geological ages; and it would be difficult to prove the truth of
the proposition, for every now and then even a living animal, as the
Lepidosiren, is discovered having affinities directed towards very
distinct groups. Yet if we compare the older Reptiles and Batrachians,
the older Fish, the older Cephalopods, and the eocene Mammals, with the
more recent members of the same classes, we must admit that there is
some truth in the remark.

Let us see how far these several facts and inferences accord with the
theory of descent with modification. As the subject is somewhat complex,
I must request the reader to turn to the diagram in the fourth chapter.
We may suppose that the numbered letters represent genera, and the
dotted lines diverging from them the species in each genus. The diagram
is much too simple, too few genera and too few species being given,
but this is unimportant for us. The horizontal lines may represent
successive geological formations, and all the forms beneath the
uppermost line may be considered as extinct. The three existing genera,
a14, q14, p14, will form a small family; b14 and f14 a closely allied
family or sub-family; and o14, e14, m14, a third family. These three
families, together with the many extinct genera on the several lines of
descent diverging from the parent-form A, will form an order; for all
will have inherited something in common from their ancient and common
progenitor. On the principle of the continued tendency to divergence
of character, which was formerly illustrated by this diagram, the more
recent any form is, the more it will generally differ from its ancient
progenitor. Hence we can understand the rule that the most ancient
fossils differ most from existing forms. We must not, however, assume
that divergence of character is a necessary contingency; it depends
solely on the descendants from a species being thus enabled to seize
on many and different places in the economy of nature. Therefore it is
quite possible, as we have seen in the case of some Silurian forms,
that a species might go on being slightly modified in relation to its
slightly altered conditions of life, and yet retain throughout a vast
period the same general characteristics. This is represented in the
diagram by the letter F14.

All the many forms, extinct and recent, descended from A, make, as
before remarked, one order; and this order, from the continued effects
of extinction and divergence of character, has become divided into
several sub-families and families, some of which are supposed to have
perished at different periods, and some to have endured to the present
day.

By looking at the diagram we can see that if many of the extinct forms,
supposed to be embedded in the successive formations, were discovered
at several points low down in the series, the three existing families on
the uppermost line would be rendered less distinct from each other. If,
for instance, the genera a1, a5, a10, f8, m3, m6, m9 were disinterred,
these three families would be so closely linked together that they
probably would have to be united into one great family, in nearly the
same manner as has occurred with ruminants and pachyderms. Yet he who
objected to call the extinct genera, which thus linked the living
genera of three families together, intermediate in character, would be
justified, as they are intermediate, not directly, but only by a long
and circuitous course through many widely different forms. If many
extinct forms were to be discovered above one of the middle horizontal
lines or geological formations--for instance, above Number VI.--but
none from beneath this line, then only the two families on the left
hand (namely, a14, etc., and b14, etc.) would have to be united into
one family; and the two other families (namely, a14 to f14 now including
five genera, and o14 to m14) would yet remain distinct. These two
families, however, would be less distinct from each other than they were
before the discovery of the fossils. If, for instance, we suppose the
existing genera of the two families to differ from each other by a dozen
characters, in this case the genera, at the early period marked VI.,
would differ by a lesser number of characters; for at this early
stage of descent they have not diverged in character from the common
progenitor of the order, nearly so much as they subsequently diverged.
Thus it comes that ancient and extinct genera are often in some slight
degree intermediate in character between their modified descendants, or
between their collateral relations.

In nature the case will be far more complicated than is represented in
the diagram; for the groups will have been more numerous, they will
have endured for extremely unequal lengths of time, and will have been
modified in various degrees. As we possess only the last volume of the
geological record, and that in a very broken condition, we have no right
to expect, except in very rare cases, to fill up wide intervals in the
natural system, and thus unite distinct families or orders. All that we
have a right to expect, is that those groups, which have within known
geological periods undergone much modification, should in the older
formations make some slight approach to each other; so that the older
members should differ less from each other in some of their characters
than do the existing members of the same groups; and this by the
concurrent evidence of our best palaeontologists seems frequently to be
the case.

Thus, on the theory of descent with modification, the main facts with
respect to the mutual affinities of the extinct forms of life to each
other and to living forms, seem to me explained in a satisfactory
manner. And they are wholly inexplicable on any other view.

On this same theory, it is evident that the fauna of any great period
in the earth's history will be intermediate in general character between
that which preceded and that which succeeded it. Thus, the species
which lived at the sixth great stage of descent in the diagram are the
modified offspring of those which lived at the fifth stage, and are the
parents of those which became still more modified at the seventh stage;
hence they could hardly fail to be nearly intermediate in character
between the forms of life above and below. We must, however, allow for
the entire extinction of some preceding forms, and for the coming in of
quite new forms by immigration, and for a large amount of modification,
during the long and blank intervals between the successive formations.
Subject to these allowances, the fauna of each geological period
undoubtedly is intermediate in character, between the preceding and
succeeding faunas. I need give only one instance, namely, the manner
in which the fossils of the Devonian system, when this system was first
discovered, were at once recognised by palaeontologists as intermediate
in character between those of the overlying carboniferous, and
underlying Silurian system. But each fauna is not necessarily exactly
intermediate, as unequal intervals of time have elapsed between
consecutive formations.

It is no real objection to the truth of the statement, that the fauna of
each period as a whole is nearly intermediate in character between the
preceding and succeeding faunas, that certain genera offer exceptions
to the rule. For instance, mastodons and elephants, when arranged by Dr.
Falconer in two series, first according to their mutual affinities
and then according to their periods of existence, do not accord in
arrangement. The species extreme in character are not the oldest, or
the most recent; nor are those which are intermediate in character,
intermediate in age. But supposing for an instant, in this and other
such cases, that the record of the first appearance and disappearance
of the species was perfect, we have no reason to believe that forms
successively produced necessarily endure for corresponding lengths of
time: a very ancient form might occasionally last much longer than
a form elsewhere subsequently produced, especially in the case of
terrestrial productions inhabiting separated districts. To compare small
things with great: if the principal living and extinct races of the
domestic pigeon were arranged as well as they could be in serial
affinity, this arrangement would not closely accord with the order
in time of their production, and still less with the order of their
disappearance; for the parent rock-pigeon now lives; and many varieties
between the rock-pigeon and the carrier have become extinct; and
carriers which are extreme in the important character of length of beak
originated earlier than short-beaked tumblers, which are at the opposite
end of the series in this same respect.

Closely connected with the statement, that the organic remains from an
intermediate formation are in some degree intermediate in character,
is the fact, insisted on by all palaeontologists, that fossils from two
consecutive formations are far more closely related to each other, than
are the fossils from two remote formations. Pictet gives as a well-known
instance, the general resemblance of the organic remains from the
several stages of the chalk formation, though the species are distinct
in each stage. This fact alone, from its generality, seems to have
shaken Professor Pictet in his firm belief in the immutability of
species. He who is acquainted with the distribution of existing species
over the globe, will not attempt to account for the close resemblance of
the distinct species in closely consecutive formations, by the physical
conditions of the ancient areas having remained nearly the same. Let it
be remembered that the forms of life, at least those inhabiting the sea,
have changed almost simultaneously throughout the world, and therefore
under the most different climates and conditions. Consider the
prodigious vicissitudes of climate during the pleistocene period, which
includes the whole glacial period, and note how little the specific
forms of the inhabitants of the sea have been affected.

On the theory of descent, the full meaning of the fact of fossil remains
from closely consecutive formations, though ranked as distinct species,
being closely related, is obvious. As the accumulation of each formation
has often been interrupted, and as long blank intervals have intervened
between successive formations, we ought not to expect to find, as I
attempted to show in the last chapter, in any one or two formations all
the intermediate varieties between the species which appeared at the
commencement and close of these periods; but we ought to find after
intervals, very long as measured by years, but only moderately long
as measured geologically, closely allied forms, or, as they have been
called by some authors, representative species; and these we assuredly
do find. We find, in short, such evidence of the slow and scarcely
sensible mutation of specific forms, as we have a just right to expect
to find.

ON THE STATE OF DEVELOPMENT OF ANCIENT FORMS.

There has been much discussion whether recent forms are more highly
developed than ancient. I will not here enter on this subject, for
naturalists have not as yet defined to each other's satisfaction what is
meant by high and low forms. But in one particular sense the more recent
forms must, on my theory, be higher than the more ancient; for each new
species is formed by having had some advantage in the struggle for life
over other and preceding forms. If under a nearly similar climate, the
eocene inhabitants of one quarter of the world were put into competition
with the existing inhabitants of the same or some other quarter, the
eocene fauna or flora would certainly be beaten and exterminated;
as would a secondary fauna by an eocene, and a palaeozoic fauna by a
secondary fauna. I do not doubt that this process of improvement has
affected in a marked and sensible manner the organisation of the more
recent and victorious forms of life, in comparison with the ancient and
beaten forms; but I can see no way of testing this sort of progress.
Crustaceans, for instance, not the highest in their own class, may have
beaten the highest molluscs. From the extraordinary manner in which
European productions have recently spread over New Zealand, and have
seized on places which must have been previously occupied, we may
believe, if all the animals and plants of Great Britain were set free
in New Zealand, that in the course of time a multitude of British forms
would become thoroughly naturalized there, and would exterminate many
of the natives. On the other hand, from what we see now occurring in New
Zealand, and from hardly a single inhabitant of the southern hemisphere
having become wild in any part of Europe, we may doubt, if all the
productions of New Zealand were set free in Great Britain, whether any
considerable number would be enabled to seize on places now occupied by
our native plants and animals. Under this point of view, the productions
of Great Britain may be said to be higher than those of New Zealand. Yet
the most skilful naturalist from an examination of the species of the
two countries could not have foreseen this result.

Agassiz insists that ancient animals resemble to a certain extent the
embryos of recent animals of the same classes; or that the geological
succession of extinct forms is in some degree parallel to the
embryological development of recent forms. I must follow Pictet and
Huxley in thinking that the truth of this doctrine is very far from
proved. Yet I fully expect to see it hereafter confirmed, at least in
regard to subordinate groups, which have branched off from each other
within comparatively recent times. For this doctrine of Agassiz accords
well with the theory of natural selection. In a future chapter I
shall attempt to show that the adult differs from its embryo, owing
to variations supervening at a not early age, and being inherited at
a corresponding age. This process, whilst it leaves the embryo almost
unaltered, continually adds, in the course of successive generations,
more and more difference to the adult.

Thus the embryo comes to be left as a sort of picture, preserved by
nature, of the ancient and less modified condition of each animal. This
view may be true, and yet it may never be capable of full proof. Seeing,
for instance, that the oldest known mammals, reptiles, and fish strictly
belong to their own proper classes, though some of these old forms are
in a slight degree less distinct from each other than are the typical
members of the same groups at the present day, it would be vain to look
for animals having the common embryological character of the Vertebrata,
until beds far beneath the lowest Silurian strata are discovered--a
discovery of which the chance is very small.

ON THE SUCCESSION OF THE SAME TYPES WITHIN THE SAME AREAS, DURING THE
LATER TERTIARY PERIODS.

Mr. Clift many years ago showed that the fossil mammals from the
Australian caves were closely allied to the living marsupials of that
continent. In South America, a similar relationship is manifest, even
to an uneducated eye, in the gigantic pieces of armour like those of the
armadillo, found in several parts of La Plata; and Professor Owen has
shown in the most striking manner that most of the fossil mammals,
buried there in such numbers, are related to South American types. This
relationship is even more clearly seen in the wonderful collection of
fossil bones made by MM. Lund and Clausen in the caves of Brazil. I was
so much impressed with these facts that I strongly insisted, in 1839
and 1845, on this "law of the succession of types,"--on "this wonderful
relationship in the same continent between the dead and the living."
Professor Owen has subsequently extended the same generalisation to
the mammals of the Old World. We see the same law in this author's
restorations of the extinct and gigantic birds of New Zealand. We see
it also in the birds of the caves of Brazil. Mr. Woodward has shown that
the same law holds good with sea-shells, but from the wide distribution
of most genera of molluscs, it is not well displayed by them. Other
cases could be added, as the relation between the extinct and
living land-shells of Madeira; and between the extinct and living
brackish-water shells of the Aralo-Caspian Sea.

Now what does this remarkable law of the succession of the same types
within the same areas mean? He would be a bold man, who after comparing
the present climate of Australia and of parts of South America under the
same latitude, would attempt to account, on the one hand, by dissimilar
physical conditions for the dissimilarity of the inhabitants of these
two continents, and, on the other hand, by similarity of conditions,
for the uniformity of the same types in each during the later tertiary
periods. Nor can it be pretended that it is an immutable law that
marsupials should have been chiefly or solely produced in Australia; or
that Edentata and other American types should have been solely produced
in South America. For we know that Europe in ancient times was peopled
by numerous marsupials; and I have shown in the publications above
alluded to, that in America the law of distribution of terrestrial
mammals was formerly different from what it now is. North America
formerly partook strongly of the present character of the southern
half of the continent; and the southern half was formerly more closely
allied, than it is at present, to the northern half. In a similar manner
we know from Falconer and Cautley's discoveries, that northern India was
formerly more closely related in its mammals to Africa than it is at
the present time. Analogous facts could be given in relation to the
distribution of marine animals.

On the theory of descent with modification, the great law of the long
enduring, but not immutable, succession of the same types within the
same areas, is at once explained; for the inhabitants of each quarter of
the world will obviously tend to leave in that quarter, during the next
succeeding period of time, closely allied though in some degree modified
descendants. If the inhabitants of one continent formerly differed
greatly from those of another continent, so will their modified
descendants still differ in nearly the same manner and degree. But
after very long intervals of time and after great geographical changes,
permitting much inter-migration, the feebler will yield to the more
dominant forms, and there will be nothing immutable in the laws of past
and present distribution.

It may be asked in ridicule, whether I suppose that the megatherium and
other allied huge monsters have left behind them in South America the
sloth, armadillo, and anteater, as their degenerate descendants. This
cannot for an instant be admitted. These huge animals have become wholly
extinct, and have left no progeny. But in the caves of Brazil, there
are many extinct species which are closely allied in size and in other
characters to the species still living in South America; and some of
these fossils may be the actual progenitors of living species. It must
not be forgotten that, on my theory, all the species of the same genus
have descended from some one species; so that if six genera, each having
eight species, be found in one geological formation, and in the next
succeeding formation there be six other allied or representative genera
with the same number of species, then we may conclude that only one
species of each of the six older genera has left modified descendants,
constituting the six new genera. The other seven species of the old
genera have all died out and have left no progeny. Or, which would
probably be a far commoner case, two or three species of two or three
alone of the six older genera will have been the parents of the six new
genera; the other old species and the other whole genera having
become utterly extinct. In failing orders, with the genera and species
decreasing in numbers, as apparently is the case of the Edentata of
South America, still fewer genera and species will have left modified
blood-descendants.

SUMMARY OF THE PRECEDING AND PRESENT CHAPTERS.

I have attempted to show that the geological record is extremely
imperfect; that only a small portion of the globe has been geologically
explored with care; that only certain classes of organic beings have
been largely preserved in a fossil state; that the number both of
specimens and of species, preserved in our museums, is absolutely as
nothing compared with the incalculable number of generations which
must have passed away even during a single formation; that, owing
to subsidence being necessary for the accumulation of fossiliferous
deposits thick enough to resist future degradation, enormous intervals
of time have elapsed between the successive formations; that there has
probably been more extinction during the periods of subsidence, and more
variation during the periods of elevation, and during the latter the
record will have been least perfectly kept; that each single formation
has not been continuously deposited; that the duration of each formation
is, perhaps, short compared with the average duration of specific forms;
that migration has played an important part in the first appearance of
new forms in any one area and formation; that widely ranging species
are those which have varied most, and have oftenest given rise to new
species; and that varieties have at first often been local. All these
causes taken conjointly, must have tended to make the geological record
extremely imperfect, and will to a large extent explain why we do not
find interminable varieties, connecting together all the extinct and
existing forms of life by the finest graduated steps.

He who rejects these views on the nature of the geological record, will
rightly reject my whole theory. For he may ask in vain where are the
numberless transitional links which must formerly have connected the
closely allied or representative species, found in the several stages of
the same great formation. He may disbelieve in the enormous intervals
of time which have elapsed between our consecutive formations; he may
overlook how important a part migration must have played, when the
formations of any one great region alone, as that of Europe, are
considered; he may urge the apparent, but often falsely apparent, sudden
coming in of whole groups of species. He may ask where are the remains
of those infinitely numerous organisms which must have existed long
before the first bed of the Silurian system was deposited: I can answer
this latter question only hypothetically, by saying that as far as we
can see, where our oceans now extend they have for an enormous period
extended, and where our oscillating continents now stand they have stood
ever since the Silurian epoch; but that long before that period, the
world may have presented a wholly different aspect; and that the older
continents, formed of formations older than any known to us, may now all
be in a metamorphosed condition, or may lie buried under the ocean.

Passing from these difficulties, all the other great leading facts in
palaeontology seem to me simply to follow on the theory of descent with
modification through natural selection. We can thus understand how it
is that new species come in slowly and successively; how species of
different classes do not necessarily change together, or at the same
rate, or in the same degree; yet in the long run that all undergo
modification to some extent. The extinction of old forms is the almost
inevitable consequence of the production of new forms. We can understand
why when a species has once disappeared it never reappears. Groups of
species increase in numbers slowly, and endure for unequal periods of
time; for the process of modification is necessarily slow, and depends
on many complex contingencies. The dominant species of the larger
dominant groups tend to leave many modified descendants, and thus new
sub-groups and groups are formed. As these are formed, the species of
the less vigorous groups, from their inferiority inherited from a common
progenitor, tend to become extinct together, and to leave no modified
offspring on the face of the earth. But the utter extinction of a whole
group of species may often be a very slow process, from the survival of
a few descendants, lingering in protected and isolated situations. When
a group has once wholly disappeared, it does not reappear; for the link
of generation has been broken.

We can understand how the spreading of the dominant forms of life, which
are those that oftenest vary, will in the long run tend to people the
world with allied, but modified, descendants; and these will generally
succeed in taking the places of those groups of species which are their
inferiors in the struggle for existence. Hence, after long intervals
of time, the productions of the world will appear to have changed
simultaneously.

We can understand how it is that all the forms of life, ancient and
recent, make together one grand system; for all are connected by
generation. We can understand, from the continued tendency to divergence
of character, why the more ancient a form is, the more it generally
differs from those now living. Why ancient and extinct forms often tend
to fill up gaps between existing forms, sometimes blending two groups
previously classed as distinct into one; but more commonly only bringing
them a little closer together. The more ancient a form is, the more
often, apparently, it displays characters in some degree intermediate
between groups now distinct; for the more ancient a form is, the more
nearly it will be related to, and consequently resemble, the common
progenitor of groups, since become widely divergent. Extinct forms
are seldom directly intermediate between existing forms; but are
intermediate only by a long and circuitous course through many extinct
and very different forms. We can clearly see why the organic remains of
closely consecutive formations are more closely allied to each other,
than are those of remote formations; for the forms are more closely
linked together by generation: we can clearly see why the remains of an
intermediate formation are intermediate in character.

The inhabitants of each successive period in the world's history have
beaten their predecessors in the race for life, and are, in so far,
higher in the scale of nature; and this may account for that vague yet
ill-defined sentiment, felt by many palaeontologists, that organisation
on the whole has progressed. If it should hereafter be proved that
ancient animals resemble to a certain extent the embryos of more recent
animals of the same class, the fact will be intelligible. The succession
of the same types of structure within the same areas during the later
geological periods ceases to be mysterious, and is simply explained by
inheritance.

If then the geological record be as imperfect as I believe it to be, and
it may at least be asserted that the record cannot be proved to be much
more perfect, the main objections to the theory of natural selection are
greatly diminished or disappear. On the other hand, all the chief laws
of palaeontology plainly proclaim, as it seems to me, that species have
been produced by ordinary generation: old forms having been supplanted
by new and improved forms of life, produced by the laws of variation
still acting round us, and preserved by Natural Selection.




11. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.

Present distribution cannot be accounted for by differences in physical
conditions. Importance of barriers. Affinity of the productions of the
same continent. Centres of creation. Means of dispersal, by changes of
climate and of the level of the land, and by occasional means. Dispersal
during the Glacial period co-extensive with the world.

In considering the distribution of organic beings over the face of
the globe, the first great fact which strikes us is, that neither the
similarity nor the dissimilarity of the inhabitants of various regions
can be accounted for by their climatal and other physical conditions. Of
late, almost every author who has studied the subject has come to this
conclusion. The case of America alone would almost suffice to prove its
truth: for if we exclude the northern parts where the circumpolar land
is almost continuous, all authors agree that one of the most fundamental
divisions in geographical distribution is that between the New and Old
Worlds; yet if we travel over the vast American continent, from the
central parts of the United States to its extreme southern point, we
meet with the most diversified conditions; the most humid districts,
arid deserts, lofty mountains, grassy plains, forests, marshes, lakes,
and great rivers, under almost every temperature. There is hardly a
climate or condition in the Old World which cannot be paralleled in the
New--at least as closely as the same species generally require; for it
is a most rare case to find a group of organisms confined to any small
spot, having conditions peculiar in only a slight degree; for instance,
small areas in the Old World could be pointed out hotter than any in
the New World, yet these are not inhabited by a peculiar fauna or flora.
Notwithstanding this parallelism in the conditions of the Old and New
Worlds, how widely different are their living productions!

In the southern hemisphere, if we compare large tracts of land in
Australia, South Africa, and western South America, between latitudes
25 deg and 35 deg, we shall find parts extremely similar in all their
conditions, yet it would not be possible to point out three faunas and
floras more utterly dissimilar. Or again we may compare the productions
of South America south of lat. 35 deg with those north of 25 deg, which
consequently inhabit a considerably different climate, and they will be
found incomparably more closely related to each other, than they are to
the productions of Australia or Africa under nearly the same climate.
Analogous facts could be given with respect to the inhabitants of the
sea.

A second great fact which strikes us in our general review is, that
barriers of any kind, or obstacles to free migration, are related in a
close and important manner to the differences between the productions of
various regions. We see this in the great difference of nearly all the
terrestrial productions of the New and Old Worlds, excepting in the
northern parts, where the land almost joins, and where, under a slightly
different climate, there might have been free migration for the northern
temperate forms, as there now is for the strictly arctic productions.
We see the same fact in the great difference between the inhabitants of
Australia, Africa, and South America under the same latitude: for these
countries are almost as much isolated from each other as is possible. On
each continent, also, we see the same fact; for on the opposite sides
of lofty and continuous mountain-ranges, and of great deserts, and
sometimes even of large rivers, we find different productions; though as
mountain chains, deserts, etc., are not as impassable, or likely to have
endured so long as the oceans separating continents, the differences are
very inferior in degree to those characteristic of distinct continents.

Turning to the sea, we find the same law. No two marine faunas are more
distinct, with hardly a fish, shell, or crab in common, than those of
the eastern and western shores of South and Central America; yet these
great faunas are separated only by the narrow, but impassable, isthmus
of Panama. Westward of the shores of America, a wide space of open ocean
extends, with not an island as a halting-place for emigrants; here we
have a barrier of another kind, and as soon as this is passed we meet
in the eastern islands of the Pacific, with another and totally
distinct fauna. So that here three marine faunas range far northward
and southward, in parallel lines not far from each other, under
corresponding climates; but from being separated from each other
by impassable barriers, either of land or open sea, they are wholly
distinct. On the other hand, proceeding still further westward from the
eastern islands of the tropical parts of the Pacific, we encounter no
impassable barriers, and we have innumerable islands as halting-places,
until after travelling over a hemisphere we come to the shores of
Africa; and over this vast space we meet with no well-defined and
distinct marine faunas. Although hardly one shell, crab or fish is
common to the above-named three approximate faunas of Eastern and
Western America and the eastern Pacific islands, yet many fish range
from the Pacific into the Indian Ocean, and many shells are common to
the eastern islands of the Pacific and the eastern shores of Africa, on
almost exactly opposite meridians of longitude.

A third great fact, partly included in the foregoing statements, is the
affinity of the productions of the same continent or sea, though the
species themselves are distinct at different points and stations. It is
a law of the widest generality, and every continent offers innumerable
instances. Nevertheless the naturalist in travelling, for instance,
from north to south never fails to be struck by the manner in which
successive groups of beings, specifically distinct, yet clearly related,
replace each other. He hears from closely allied, yet distinct kinds of
birds, notes nearly similar, and sees their nests similarly constructed,
but not quite alike, with eggs coloured in nearly the same manner. The
plains near the Straits of Magellan are inhabited by one species of
Rhea (American ostrich), and northward the plains of La Plata by another
species of the same genus; and not by a true ostrich or emeu, like those
found in Africa and Australia under the same latitude. On these same
plains of La Plata, we see the agouti and bizcacha, animals having
nearly the same habits as our hares and rabbits and belonging to the
same order of Rodents, but they plainly display an American type of
structure. We ascend the lofty peaks of the Cordillera and we find an
alpine species of bizcacha; we look to the waters, and we do not find
the beaver or musk-rat, but the coypu and capybara, rodents of the
American type. Innumerable other instances could be given. If we look
to the islands off the American shore, however much they may differ in
geological structure, the inhabitants, though they may be all peculiar
species, are essentially American. We may look back to past ages, as
shown in the last chapter, and we find American types then prevalent on
the American continent and in the American seas. We see in these facts
some deep organic bond, prevailing throughout space and time, over
the same areas of land and water, and independent of their physical
conditions. The naturalist must feel little curiosity, who is not led to
inquire what this bond is.

This bond, on my theory, is simply inheritance, that cause which alone,
as far as we positively know, produces organisms quite like, or, as we
see in the case of varieties nearly like each other. The dissimilarity
of the inhabitants of different regions may be attributed to
modification through natural selection, and in a quite subordinate
degree to the direct influence of different physical conditions.
The degree of dissimilarity will depend on the migration of the more
dominant forms of life from one region into another having been effected
with more or less ease, at periods more or less remote;--on the nature
and number of the former immigrants;--and on their action and reaction,
in their mutual struggles for life;--the relation of organism to
organism being, as I have already often remarked, the most important of
all relations. Thus the high importance of barriers comes into play by
checking migration; as does time for the slow process of modification
through natural selection. Widely-ranging species, abounding in
individuals, which have already triumphed over many competitors in their
own widely-extended homes will have the best chance of seizing on new
places, when they spread into new countries. In their new homes they
will be exposed to new conditions, and will frequently undergo further
modification and improvement; and thus they will become still further
victorious, and will produce groups of modified descendants. On this
principle of inheritance with modification, we can understand how it is
that sections of genera, whole genera, and even families are confined to
the same areas, as is so commonly and notoriously the case.

I believe, as was remarked in the last chapter, in no law of necessary
development. As the variability of each species is an independent
property, and will be taken advantage of by natural selection, only so
far as it profits the individual in its complex struggle for life,
so the degree of modification in different species will be no uniform
quantity. If, for instance, a number of species, which stand in direct
competition with each other, migrate in a body into a new and afterwards
isolated country, they will be little liable to modification; for
neither migration nor isolation in themselves can do anything. These
principles come into play only by bringing organisms into new relations
with each other, and in a lesser degree with the surrounding physical
conditions. As we have seen in the last chapter that some forms have
retained nearly the same character from an enormously remote geological
period, so certain species have migrated over vast spaces, and have not
become greatly modified.

On these views, it is obvious, that the several species of the same
genus, though inhabiting the most distant quarters of the world, must
originally have proceeded from the same source, as they have descended
from the same progenitor. In the case of those species, which have
undergone during whole geological periods but little modification, there
is not much difficulty in believing that they may have migrated from the
same region; for during the vast geographical and climatal changes which
will have supervened since ancient times, almost any amount of migration
is possible. But in many other cases, in which we have reason to believe
that the species of a genus have been produced within comparatively
recent times, there is great difficulty on this head. It is also obvious
that the individuals of the same species, though now inhabiting distant
and isolated regions, must have proceeded from one spot, where their
parents were first produced: for, as explained in the last chapter, it
is incredible that individuals identically the same should ever have
been produced through natural selection from parents specifically
distinct.

We are thus brought to the question which has been largely discussed by
naturalists, namely, whether species have been created at one or more
points of the earth's surface. Undoubtedly there are very many cases of
extreme difficulty, in understanding how the same species could possibly
have migrated from some one point to the several distant and isolated
points, where now found. Nevertheless the simplicity of the view that
each species was first produced within a single region captivates the
mind. He who rejects it, rejects the vera causa of ordinary generation
with subsequent migration, and calls in the agency of a miracle. It is
universally admitted, that in most cases the area inhabited by a species
is continuous; and when a plant or animal inhabits two points so distant
from each other, or with an interval of such a nature, that the space
could not be easily passed over by migration, the fact is given as
something remarkable and exceptional. The capacity of migrating across
the sea is more distinctly limited in terrestrial mammals, than perhaps
in any other organic beings; and, accordingly, we find no inexplicable
cases of the same mammal inhabiting distant points of the world. No
geologist will feel any difficulty in such cases as Great Britain having
been formerly united to Europe, and consequently possessing the same
quadrupeds. But if the same species can be produced at two separate
points, why do we not find a single mammal common to Europe and
Australia or South America? The conditions of life are nearly the
same, so that a multitude of European animals and plants have become
naturalised in America and Australia; and some of the aboriginal plants
are identically the same at these distant points of the northern and
southern hemispheres? The answer, as I believe, is, that mammals have
not been able to migrate, whereas some plants, from their varied means
of dispersal, have migrated across the vast and broken interspace. The
great and striking influence which barriers of every kind have had on
distribution, is intelligible only on the view that the great majority
of species have been produced on one side alone, and have not been able
to migrate to the other side. Some few families, many sub-families,
very many genera, and a still greater number of sections of genera
are confined to a single region; and it has been observed by several
naturalists, that the most natural genera, or those genera in which the
species are most closely related to each other, are generally local,
or confined to one area. What a strange anomaly it would be, if, when
coming one step lower in the series, to the individuals of the same
species, a directly opposite rule prevailed; and species were not local,
but had been produced in two or more distinct areas!

Hence it seems to me, as it has to many other naturalists, that the
view of each species having been produced in one area alone, and having
subsequently migrated from that area as far as its powers of migration
and subsistence under past and present conditions permitted, is the most
probable. Undoubtedly many cases occur, in which we cannot explain how
the same species could have passed from one point to the other. But the
geographical and climatal changes, which have certainly occurred within
recent geological times, must have interrupted or rendered discontinuous
the formerly continuous range of many species. So that we are reduced to
consider whether the exceptions to continuity of range are so numerous
and of so grave a nature, that we ought to give up the belief, rendered
probable by general considerations, that each species has been produced
within one area, and has migrated thence as far as it could. It would
be hopelessly tedious to discuss all the exceptional cases of the same
species, now living at distant and separated points; nor do I for a
moment pretend that any explanation could be offered of many such cases.
But after some preliminary remarks, I will discuss a few of the most
striking classes of facts; namely, the existence of the same species
on the summits of distant mountain-ranges, and at distant points in the
arctic and antarctic regions; and secondly (in the following chapter),
the wide distribution of freshwater productions; and thirdly, the
occurrence of the same terrestrial species on islands and on the
mainland, though separated by hundreds of miles of open sea. If the
existence of the same species at distant and isolated points of the
earth's surface, can in many instances be explained on the view of each
species having migrated from a single birthplace; then, considering our
ignorance with respect to former climatal and geographical changes and
various occasional means of transport, the belief that this has been the
universal law, seems to me incomparably the safest.

In discussing this subject, we shall be enabled at the same time to
consider a point equally important for us, namely, whether the several
distinct species of a genus, which on my theory have all descended from
a common progenitor, can have migrated (undergoing modification
during some part of their migration) from the area inhabited by their
progenitor. If it can be shown to be almost invariably the case, that
a region, of which most of its inhabitants are closely related to,
or belong to the same genera with the species of a second region, has
probably received at some former period immigrants from this other
region, my theory will be strengthened; for we can clearly understand,
on the principle of modification, why the inhabitants of a region should
be related to those of another region, whence it has been stocked. A
volcanic island, for instance, upheaved and formed at the distance of a
few hundreds of miles from a continent, would probably receive from it
in the course of time a few colonists, and their descendants, though
modified, would still be plainly related by inheritance to the
inhabitants of the continent. Cases of this nature are common, and are,
as we shall hereafter more fully see, inexplicable on the theory of
independent creation. This view of the relation of species in one region
to those in another, does not differ much (by substituting the word
variety for species) from that lately advanced in an ingenious paper by
Mr. Wallace, in which he concludes, that "every species has come into
existence coincident both in space and time with a pre-existing
closely allied species." And I now know from correspondence, that this
coincidence he attributes to generation with modification.

The previous remarks on "single and multiple centres of creation" do
not directly bear on another allied question,--namely whether all the
individuals of the same species have descended from a single pair, or
single hermaphrodite, or whether, as some authors suppose, from many
individuals simultaneously created. With those organic beings which
never intercross (if such exist), the species, on my theory, must have
descended from a succession of improved varieties, which will never have
blended with other individuals or varieties, but will have supplanted
each other; so that, at each successive stage of modification and
improvement, all the individuals of each variety will have descended
from a single parent. But in the majority of cases, namely, with
all organisms which habitually unite for each birth, or which often
intercross, I believe that during the slow process of modification
the individuals of the species will have been kept nearly uniform by
intercrossing; so that many individuals will have gone on simultaneously
changing, and the whole amount of modification will not have been due,
at each stage, to descent from a single parent. To illustrate what I
mean: our English racehorses differ slightly from the horses of every
other breed; but they do not owe their difference and superiority to
descent from any single pair, but to continued care in selecting and
training many individuals during many generations.

Before discussing the three classes of facts, which I have selected as
presenting the greatest amount of difficulty on the theory of "single
centres of creation," I must say a few words on the means of dispersal.

MEANS OF DISPERSAL.

Sir C. Lyell and other authors have ably treated this subject. I can
give here only the briefest abstract of the more important facts. Change
of climate must have had a powerful influence on migration: a region
when its climate was different may have been a high road for migration,
but now be impassable; I shall, however, presently have to discuss this
branch of the subject in some detail. Changes of level in the land must
also have been highly influential: a narrow isthmus now separates two
marine faunas; submerge it, or let it formerly have been submerged, and
the two faunas will now blend or may formerly have blended: where the
sea now extends, land may at a former period have connected islands or
possibly even continents together, and thus have allowed terrestrial
productions to pass from one to the other. No geologist will dispute
that great mutations of level have occurred within the period of
existing organisms. Edward Forbes insisted that all the islands in the
Atlantic must recently have been connected with Europe or Africa, and
Europe likewise with America. Other authors have thus hypothetically
bridged over every ocean, and have united almost every island to some
mainland. If indeed the arguments used by Forbes are to be trusted,
it must be admitted that scarcely a single island exists which has not
recently been united to some continent. This view cuts the Gordian knot
of the dispersal of the same species to the most distant points, and
removes many a difficulty: but to the best of my judgment we are not
authorized in admitting such enormous geographical changes within
the period of existing species. It seems to me that we have abundant
evidence of great oscillations of level in our continents; but not of
such vast changes in their position and extension, as to have united
them within the recent period to each other and to the several
intervening oceanic islands. I freely admit the former existence of many
islands, now buried beneath the sea, which may have served as halting
places for plants and for many animals during their migration. In the
coral-producing oceans such sunken islands are now marked, as I believe,
by rings of coral or atolls standing over them. Whenever it is fully
admitted, as I believe it will some day be, that each species has
proceeded from a single birthplace, and when in the course of time we
know something definite about the means of distribution, we shall be
enabled to speculate with security on the former extension of the land.
But I do not believe that it will ever be proved that within the recent
period continents which are now quite separate, have been continuously,
or almost continuously, united with each other, and with the many
existing oceanic islands. Several facts in distribution,--such as the
great difference in the marine faunas on the opposite sides of almost
every continent,--the close relation of the tertiary inhabitants of
several lands and even seas to their present inhabitants,--a certain
degree of relation (as we shall hereafter see) between the distribution
of mammals and the depth of the sea,--these and other such facts seem to
me opposed to the admission of such prodigious geographical revolutions
within the recent period, as are necessitated on the view advanced
by Forbes and admitted by his many followers. The nature and relative
proportions of the inhabitants of oceanic islands likewise seem to me
opposed to the belief of their former continuity with continents. Nor
does their almost universally volcanic composition favour the admission
that they are the wrecks of sunken continents;--if they had originally
existed as mountain-ranges on the land, some at least of the islands
would have been formed, like other mountain-summits, of granite,
metamorphic schists, old fossiliferous or other such rocks, instead of
consisting of mere piles of volcanic matter.

I must now say a few words on what are called accidental means, but
which more properly might be called occasional means of distribution.
I shall here confine myself to plants. In botanical works, this or
that plant is stated to be ill adapted for wide dissemination; but for
transport across the sea, the greater or less facilities may be said to
be almost wholly unknown. Until I tried, with Mr. Berkeley's aid, a
few experiments, it was not even known how far seeds could resist the
injurious action of sea-water. To my surprise I found that out of 87
kinds, 64 germinated after an immersion of 28 days, and a few survived
an immersion of 137 days. For convenience sake I chiefly tried small
seeds, without the capsule or fruit; and as all of these sank in a few
days, they could not be floated across wide spaces of the sea, whether
or not they were injured by the salt-water. Afterwards I tried some
larger fruits, capsules, etc., and some of these floated for a long
time. It is well known what a difference there is in the buoyancy of
green and seasoned timber; and it occurred to me that floods might wash
down plants or branches, and that these might be dried on the banks, and
then by a fresh rise in the stream be washed into the sea. Hence I was
led to dry stems and branches of 94 plants with ripe fruit, and to place
them on sea water. The majority sank quickly, but some which whilst
green floated for a very short time, when dried floated much longer; for
instance, ripe hazel-nuts sank immediately, but when dried, they floated
for 90 days and afterwards when planted they germinated; an asparagus
plant with ripe berries floated for 23 days, when dried it floated
for 85 days, and the seeds afterwards germinated: the ripe seeds of
Helosciadium sank in two days, when dried they floated for above 90
days, and afterwards germinated. Altogether out of the 94 dried plants,
18 floated for above 28 days, and some of the 18 floated for a very much
longer period. So that as 64/87 seeds germinated after an immersion
of 28 days; and as 18/94 plants with ripe fruit (but not all the same
species as in the foregoing experiment) floated, after being dried, for
above 28 days, as far as we may infer anything from these scanty facts,
we may conclude that the seeds of 14/100 plants of any country might be
floated by sea-currents during 28 days, and would retain their power
of germination. In Johnston's Physical Atlas, the average rate of the
several Atlantic currents is 33 miles per diem (some currents running
at the rate of 60 miles per diem); on this average, the seeds of 14/100
plants belonging to one country might be floated across 924 miles of sea
to another country; and when stranded, if blown to a favourable spot by
an inland gale, they would germinate.

Subsequently to my experiments, M. Martens tried similar ones, but in a
much better manner, for he placed the seeds in a box in the actual sea,
so that they were alternately wet and exposed to the air like really
floating plants. He tried 98 seeds, mostly different from mine; but he
chose many large fruits and likewise seeds from plants which live
near the sea; and this would have favoured the average length of
their flotation and of their resistance to the injurious action of the
salt-water. On the other hand he did not previously dry the plants or
branches with the fruit; and this, as we have seen, would have caused
some of them to have floated much longer. The result was that 18/98 of
his seeds floated for 42 days, and were then capable of germination. But
I do not doubt that plants exposed to the waves would float for a less
time than those protected from violent movement as in our experiments.
Therefore it would perhaps be safer to assume that the seeds of about
10/100 plants of a flora, after having been dried, could be floated
across a space of sea 900 miles in width, and would then germinate.
The fact of the larger fruits often floating longer than the small,
is interesting; as plants with large seeds or fruit could hardly be
transported by any other means; and Alph. de Candolle has shown that
such plants generally have restricted ranges.

But seeds may be occasionally transported in another manner. Drift
timber is thrown up on most islands, even on those in the midst of the
widest oceans; and the natives of the coral-islands in the Pacific,
procure stones for their tools, solely from the roots of drifted trees,
these stones being a valuable royal tax. I find on examination, that
when irregularly shaped stones are embedded in the roots of trees, small
parcels of earth are very frequently enclosed in their interstices and
behind them,--so perfectly that not a particle could be washed away in
the longest transport: out of one small portion of earth thus COMPLETELY
enclosed by wood in an oak about 50 years old, three dicotyledonous
plants germinated: I am certain of the accuracy of this observation.
Again, I can show that the carcasses of birds, when floating on the sea,
sometimes escape being immediately devoured; and seeds of many kinds
in the crops of floating birds long retain their vitality: peas and
vetches, for instance, are killed by even a few days' immersion in
sea-water; but some taken out of the crop of a pigeon, which had
floated on artificial salt-water for 30 days, to my surprise nearly all
germinated.

Living birds can hardly fail to be highly effective agents in the
transportation of seeds. I could give many facts showing how frequently
birds of many kinds are blown by gales to vast distances across the
ocean. We may I think safely assume that under such circumstances their
rate of flight would often be 35 miles an hour; and some authors have
given a far higher estimate. I have never seen an instance of nutritious
seeds passing through the intestines of a bird; but hard seeds of fruit
will pass uninjured through even the digestive organs of a turkey. In
the course of two months, I picked up in my garden 12 kinds of seeds,
out of the excrement of small birds, and these seemed perfect, and
some of them, which I tried, germinated. But the following fact is more
important: the crops of birds do not secrete gastric juice, and do not
in the least injure, as I know by trial, the germination of seeds;
now after a bird has found and devoured a large supply of food, it is
positively asserted that all the grains do not pass into the gizzard for
12 or even 18 hours. A bird in this interval might easily be blown to
the distance of 500 miles, and hawks are known to look out for tired
birds, and the contents of their torn crops might thus readily get
scattered. Mr. Brent informs me that a friend of his had to give up
flying carrier-pigeons from France to England, as the hawks on the
English coast destroyed so many on their arrival. Some hawks and owls
bolt their prey whole, and after an interval of from twelve to twenty
hours, disgorge pellets, which, as I know from experiments made in the
Zoological Gardens, include seeds capable of germination. Some seeds of
the oat, wheat, millet, canary, hemp, clover, and beet germinated after
having been from twelve to twenty-one hours in the stomachs of different
birds of prey; and two seeds of beet grew after having been thus
retained for two days and fourteen hours. Freshwater fish, I find, eat
seeds of many land and water plants: fish are frequently devoured by
birds, and thus the seeds might be transported from place to place. I
forced many kinds of seeds into the stomachs of dead fish, and then gave
their bodies to fishing-eagles, storks, and pelicans; these birds after
an interval of many hours, either rejected the seeds in pellets or
passed them in their excrement; and several of these seeds retained
their power of germination. Certain seeds, however, were always killed
by this process.

Although the beaks and feet of birds are generally quite clean, I can
show that earth sometimes adheres to them: in one instance I removed
twenty-two grains of dry argillaceous earth from one foot of a
partridge, and in this earth there was a pebble quite as large as the
seed of a vetch. Thus seeds might occasionally be transported to great
distances; for many facts could be given showing that soil almost
everywhere is charged with seeds. Reflect for a moment on the millions
of quails which annually cross the Mediterranean; and can we doubt that
the earth adhering to their feet would sometimes include a few minute
seeds? But I shall presently have to recur to this subject.

As icebergs are known to be sometimes loaded with earth and stones, and
have even carried brushwood, bones, and the nest of a land-bird, I can
hardly doubt that they must occasionally have transported seeds from
one part to another of the arctic and antarctic regions, as suggested by
Lyell; and during the Glacial period from one part of the now temperate
regions to another. In the Azores, from the large number of the species
of plants common to Europe, in comparison with the plants of other
oceanic islands nearer to the mainland, and (as remarked by Mr. H. C.
Watson) from the somewhat northern character of the flora in comparison
with the latitude, I suspected that these islands had been partly
stocked by ice-borne seeds, during the Glacial epoch. At my request Sir
C. Lyell wrote to M. Hartung to inquire whether he had observed erratic
boulders on these islands, and he answered that he had found large
fragments of granite and other rocks, which do not occur in the
archipelago. Hence we may safely infer that icebergs formerly landed
their rocky burthens on the shores of these mid-ocean islands, and it
is at least possible that they may have brought thither the seeds of
northern plants.

Considering that the several above means of transport, and that several
other means, which without doubt remain to be discovered, have been in
action year after year, for centuries and tens of thousands of years,
it would I think be a marvellous fact if many plants had not thus
become widely transported. These means of transport are sometimes called
accidental, but this is not strictly correct: the currents of the sea
are not accidental, nor is the direction of prevalent gales of wind.
It should be observed that scarcely any means of transport would carry
seeds for very great distances; for seeds do not retain their vitality
when exposed for a great length of time to the action of seawater; nor
could they be long carried in the crops or intestines of birds. These
means, however, would suffice for occasional transport across tracts of
sea some hundred miles in breadth, or from island to island, or from a
continent to a neighbouring island, but not from one distant continent
to another. The floras of distant continents would not by such means
become mingled in any great degree; but would remain as distinct as we
now see them to be. The currents, from their course, would never bring
seeds from North America to Britain, though they might and do bring
seeds from the West Indies to our western shores, where, if not killed
by so long an immersion in salt-water, they could not endure our
climate. Almost every year, one or two land-birds are blown across
the whole Atlantic Ocean, from North America to the western shores of
Ireland and England; but seeds could be transported by these wanderers
only by one means, namely, in dirt sticking to their feet, which is in
itself a rare accident. Even in this case, how small would the chance
be of a seed falling on favourable soil, and coming to maturity! But it
would be a great error to argue that because a well-stocked island,
like Great Britain, has not, as far as is known (and it would be very
difficult to prove this), received within the last few centuries,
through occasional means of transport, immigrants from Europe or any
other continent, that a poorly-stocked island, though standing more
remote from the mainland, would not receive colonists by similar means.
I do not doubt that out of twenty seeds or animals transported to an
island, even if far less well-stocked than Britain, scarcely more than
one would be so well fitted to its new home, as to become naturalised.
But this, as it seems to me, is no valid argument against what would
be effected by occasional means of transport, during the long lapse of
geological time, whilst an island was being upheaved and formed, and
before it had become fully stocked with inhabitants. On almost bare
land, with few or no destructive insects or birds living there, nearly
every seed, which chanced to arrive, would be sure to germinate and
survive.

DISPERSAL DURING THE GLACIAL PERIOD.

The identity of many plants and animals, on mountain-summits, separated
from each other by hundreds of miles of lowlands, where the Alpine
species could not possibly exist, is one of the most striking cases
known of the same species living at distant points, without the apparent
possibility of their having migrated from one to the other. It is indeed
a remarkable fact to see so many of the same plants living on the snowy
regions of the Alps or Pyrenees, and in the extreme northern parts of
Europe; but it is far more remarkable, that the plants on the White
Mountains, in the United States of America, are all the same with those
of Labrador, and nearly all the same, as we hear from Asa Gray, with
those on the loftiest mountains of Europe. Even as long ago as 1747,
such facts led Gmelin to conclude that the same species must have been
independently created at several distinct points; and we might have
remained in this same belief, had not Agassiz and others called vivid
attention to the Glacial period, which, as we shall immediately see,
affords a simple explanation of these facts. We have evidence of almost
every conceivable kind, organic and inorganic, that within a very recent
geological period, central Europe and North America suffered under an
Arctic climate. The ruins of a house burnt by fire do not tell their
tale more plainly, than do the mountains of Scotland and Wales, with
their scored flanks, polished surfaces, and perched boulders, of the icy
streams with which their valleys were lately filled. So greatly has the
climate of Europe changed, that in Northern Italy, gigantic moraines,
left by old glaciers, are now clothed by the vine and maize. Throughout
a large part of the United States, erratic boulders, and rocks scored by
drifted icebergs and coast-ice, plainly reveal a former cold period.

The former influence of the glacial climate on the distribution of the
inhabitants of Europe, as explained with remarkable clearness by Edward
Forbes, is substantially as follows. But we shall follow the changes
more readily, by supposing a new glacial period to come slowly on, and
then pass away, as formerly occurred. As the cold came on, and as each
more southern zone became fitted for arctic beings and ill-fitted for
their former more temperate inhabitants, the latter would be supplanted
and arctic productions would take their places. The inhabitants of the
more temperate regions would at the same time travel southward, unless
they were stopped by barriers, in which case they would perish. The
mountains would become covered with snow and ice, and their former
Alpine inhabitants would descend to the plains. By the time that the
cold had reached its maximum, we should have a uniform arctic fauna and
flora, covering the central parts of Europe, as far south as the Alps
and Pyrenees, and even stretching into Spain. The now temperate regions
of the United States would likewise be covered by arctic plants and
animals, and these would be nearly the same with those of Europe; for
the present circumpolar inhabitants, which we suppose to have everywhere
travelled southward, are remarkably uniform round the world. We may
suppose that the Glacial period came on a little earlier or later in
North America than in Europe, so will the southern migration there have
been a little earlier or later; but this will make no difference in the
final result.

As the warmth returned, the arctic forms would retreat northward,
closely followed up in their retreat by the productions of the more
temperate regions. And as the snow melted from the bases of the
mountains, the arctic forms would seize on the cleared and thawed
ground, always ascending higher and higher, as the warmth increased,
whilst their brethren were pursuing their northern journey. Hence, when
the warmth had fully returned, the same arctic species, which had lately
lived in a body together on the lowlands of the Old and New Worlds,
would be left isolated on distant mountain-summits (having been
exterminated on all lesser heights) and in the arctic regions of both
hemispheres.

Thus we can understand the identity of many plants at points so
immensely remote as on the mountains of the United States and of Europe.
We can thus also understand the fact that the Alpine plants of each
mountain-range are more especially related to the arctic forms living
due north or nearly due north of them: for the migration as the cold
came on, and the re-migration on the returning warmth, will generally
have been due south and north. The Alpine plants, for example, of
Scotland, as remarked by Mr. H. C. Watson, and those of the Pyrenees, as
remarked by Ramond, are more especially allied to the plants of northern
Scandinavia; those of the United States to Labrador; those of the
mountains of Siberia to the arctic regions of that country. These views,
grounded as they are on the perfectly well-ascertained occurrence of a
former Glacial period, seem to me to explain in so satisfactory a manner
the present distribution of the Alpine and Arctic productions of Europe
and America, that when in other regions we find the same species on
distant mountain-summits, we may almost conclude without other evidence,
that a colder climate permitted their former migration across the low
intervening tracts, since become too warm for their existence.

If the climate, since the Glacial period, has ever been in any degree
warmer than at present (as some geologists in the United States believe
to have been the case, chiefly from the distribution of the fossil
Gnathodon), then the arctic and temperate productions will at a very
late period have marched a little further north, and subsequently have
retreated to their present homes; but I have met with no satisfactory
evidence with respect to this intercalated slightly warmer period, since
the Glacial period.

The arctic forms, during their long southern migration and re-migration
northward, will have been exposed to nearly the same climate, and, as
is especially to be noticed, they will have kept in a body together;
consequently their mutual relations will not have been much disturbed,
and, in accordance with the principles inculcated in this volume, they
will not have been liable to much modification. But with our Alpine
productions, left isolated from the moment of the returning warmth,
first at the bases and ultimately on the summits of the mountains, the
case will have been somewhat different; for it is not likely that all
the same arctic species will have been left on mountain ranges distant
from each other, and have survived there ever since; they will, also, in
all probability have become mingled with ancient Alpine species, which
must have existed on the mountains before the commencement of the
Glacial epoch, and which during its coldest period will have been
temporarily driven down to the plains; they will, also, have been
exposed to somewhat different climatal influences. Their mutual
relations will thus have been in some degree disturbed; consequently
they will have been liable to modification; and this we find has been
the case; for if we compare the present Alpine plants and animals of the
several great European mountain-ranges, though very many of the species
are identically the same, some present varieties, some are ranked
as doubtful forms, and some few are distinct yet closely allied or
representative species.

In illustrating what, as I believe, actually took place during
the Glacial period, I assumed that at its commencement the arctic
productions were as uniform round the polar regions as they are at the
present day. But the foregoing remarks on distribution apply not only
to strictly arctic forms, but also to many sub-arctic and to some few
northern temperate forms, for some of these are the same on the lower
mountains and on the plains of North America and Europe; and it may be
reasonably asked how I account for the necessary degree of uniformity
of the sub-arctic and northern temperate forms round the world, at the
commencement of the Glacial period. At the present day, the sub-arctic
and northern temperate productions of the Old and New Worlds are
separated from each other by the Atlantic Ocean and by the extreme
northern part of the Pacific. During the Glacial period, when the
inhabitants of the Old and New Worlds lived further southwards than at
present, they must have been still more completely separated by wider
spaces of ocean. I believe the above difficulty may be surmounted by
looking to still earlier changes of climate of an opposite nature.
We have good reason to believe that during the newer Pliocene period,
before the Glacial epoch, and whilst the majority of the inhabitants of
the world were specifically the same as now, the climate was warmer than
at the present day. Hence we may suppose that the organisms now living
under the climate of latitude 60 deg, during the Pliocene period lived
further north under the Polar Circle, in latitude 66 deg-67 deg; and
that the strictly arctic productions then lived on the broken land still
nearer to the pole. Now if we look at a globe, we shall see that under
the Polar Circle there is almost continuous land from western Europe,
through Siberia, to eastern America. And to this continuity of the
circumpolar land, and to the consequent freedom for intermigration
under a more favourable climate, I attribute the necessary amount of
uniformity in the sub-arctic and northern temperate productions of the
Old and New Worlds, at a period anterior to the Glacial epoch.

Believing, from reasons before alluded to, that our continents have
long remained in nearly the same relative position, though subjected
to large, but partial oscillations of level, I am strongly inclined to
extend the above view, and to infer that during some earlier and still
warmer period, such as the older Pliocene period, a large number of
the same plants and animals inhabited the almost continuous circumpolar
land; and that these plants and animals, both in the Old and New Worlds,
began slowly to migrate southwards as the climate became less warm, long
before the commencement of the Glacial period. We now see, as I believe,
their descendants, mostly in a modified condition, in the central parts
of Europe and the United States. On this view we can understand the
relationship, with very little identity, between the productions of
North America and Europe,--a relationship which is most remarkable,
considering the distance of the two areas, and their separation by the
Atlantic Ocean. We can further understand the singular fact remarked on
by several observers, that the productions of Europe and America during
the later tertiary stages were more closely related to each other
than they are at the present time; for during these warmer periods
the northern parts of the Old and New Worlds will have been almost
continuously united by land, serving as a bridge, since rendered
impassable by cold, for the inter-migration of their inhabitants.

During the slowly decreasing warmth of the Pliocene period, as soon as
the species in common, which inhabited the New and Old Worlds, migrated
south of the Polar Circle, they must have been completely cut off from
each other. This separation, as far as the more temperate productions
are concerned, took place long ages ago. And as the plants and animals
migrated southward, they will have become mingled in the one great
region with the native American productions, and have had to compete
with them; and in the other great region, with those of the Old
World. Consequently we have here everything favourable for much
modification,--for far more modification than with the Alpine
productions, left isolated, within a much more recent period, on the
several mountain-ranges and on the arctic lands of the two Worlds. Hence
it has come, that when we compare the now living productions of the
temperate regions of the New and Old Worlds, we find very few identical
species (though Asa Gray has lately shown that more plants are identical
than was formerly supposed), but we find in every great class many
forms, which some naturalists rank as geographical races, and others as
distinct species; and a host of closely allied or representative forms
which are ranked by all naturalists as specifically distinct.

As on the land, so in the waters of the sea, a slow southern migration
of a marine fauna, which during the Pliocene or even a somewhat earlier
period, was nearly uniform along the continuous shores of the Polar
Circle, will account, on the theory of modification, for many closely
allied forms now living in areas completely sundered. Thus, I think, we
can understand the presence of many existing and tertiary representative
forms on the eastern and western shores of temperate North America;
and the still more striking case of many closely allied crustaceans
(as described in Dana's admirable work), of some fish and other marine
animals, in the Mediterranean and in the seas of Japan,--areas now
separated by a continent and by nearly a hemisphere of equatorial ocean.

These cases of relationship, without identity, of the inhabitants of
seas now disjoined, and likewise of the past and present inhabitants of
the temperate lands of North America and Europe, are inexplicable on the
theory of creation. We cannot say that they have been created alike, in
correspondence with the nearly similar physical conditions of the areas;
for if we compare, for instance, certain parts of South America with
the southern continents of the Old World, we see countries closely
corresponding in all their physical conditions, but with their
inhabitants utterly dissimilar.

But we must return to our more immediate subject, the Glacial period.
I am convinced that Forbes's view may be largely extended. In Europe we
have the plainest evidence of the cold period, from the western shores
of Britain to the Oural range, and southward to the Pyrenees. We may
infer, from the frozen mammals and nature of the mountain vegetation,
that Siberia was similarly affected. Along the Himalaya, at points 900
miles apart, glaciers have left the marks of their former low descent;
and in Sikkim, Dr. Hooker saw maize growing on gigantic ancient
moraines. South of the equator, we have some direct evidence of former
glacial action in New Zealand; and the same plants, found on widely
separated mountains in this island, tell the same story. If one account
which has been published can be trusted, we have direct evidence of
glacial action in the south-eastern corner of Australia.

Looking to America; in the northern half, ice-borne fragments of rock
have been observed on the eastern side as far south as lat. 36 deg-37
deg, and on the shores of the Pacific, where the climate is now so
different, as far south as lat. 46 deg; erratic boulders have, also,
been noticed on the Rocky Mountains. In the Cordillera of Equatorial
South America, glaciers once extended far below their present level.
In central Chile I was astonished at the structure of a vast mound of
detritus, about 800 feet in height, crossing a valley of the Andes; and
this I now feel convinced was a gigantic moraine, left far below any
existing glacier. Further south on both sides of the continent, from
lat. 41 deg to the southernmost extremity, we have the clearest evidence
of former glacial action, in huge boulders transported far from their
parent source.

We do not know that the Glacial epoch was strictly simultaneous at these
several far distant points on opposite sides of the world. But we have
good evidence in almost every case, that the epoch was included within
the latest geological period. We have, also, excellent evidence, that it
endured for an enormous time, as measured by years, at each point. The
cold may have come on, or have ceased, earlier at one point of the globe
than at another, but seeing that it endured for long at each, and that
it was contemporaneous in a geological sense, it seems to me probable
that it was, during a part at least of the period, actually simultaneous
throughout the world. Without some distinct evidence to the contrary, we
may at least admit as probable that the glacial action was simultaneous
on the eastern and western sides of North America, in the Cordillera
under the equator and under the warmer temperate zones, and on both
sides of the southern extremity of the continent. If this be admitted,
it is difficult to avoid believing that the temperature of the whole
world was at this period simultaneously cooler. But it would suffice for
my purpose, if the temperature was at the same time lower along certain
broad belts of longitude.

On this view of the whole world, or at least of broad longitudinal
belts, having been simultaneously colder from pole to pole, much light
can be thrown on the present distribution of identical and allied
species. In America, Dr. Hooker has shown that between forty and fifty
of the flowering plants of Tierra del Fuego, forming no inconsiderable
part of its scanty flora, are common to Europe, enormously remote as
these two points are; and there are many closely allied species. On
the lofty mountains of equatorial America a host of peculiar species
belonging to European genera occur. On the highest mountains of Brazil,
some few European genera were found by Gardner, which do not exist in
the wide intervening hot countries. So on the Silla of Caraccas
the illustrious Humboldt long ago found species belonging to genera
characteristic of the Cordillera. On the mountains of Abyssinia, several
European forms and some few representatives of the peculiar flora of the
Cape of Good Hope occur. At the Cape of Good Hope a very few European
species, believed not to have been introduced by man, and on the
mountains, some few representative European forms are found, which
have not been discovered in the intertropical parts of Africa. On the
Himalaya, and on the isolated mountain-ranges of the peninsula of India,
on the heights of Ceylon, and on the volcanic cones of Java, many plants
occur, either identically the same or representing each other, and
at the same time representing plants of Europe, not found in the
intervening hot lowlands. A list of the genera collected on the loftier
peaks of Java raises a picture of a collection made on a hill in Europe!
Still more striking is the fact that southern Australian forms are
clearly represented by plants growing on the summits of the mountains
of Borneo. Some of these Australian forms, as I hear from Dr. Hooker,
extend along the heights of the peninsula of Malacca, and are thinly
scattered, on the one hand over India and on the other as far north as
Japan.

On the southern mountains of Australia, Dr. F. Muller has discovered
several European species; other species, not introduced by man, occur
on the lowlands; and a long list can be given, as I am informed by
Dr. Hooker, of European genera, found in Australia, but not in the
intermediate torrid regions. In the admirable 'Introduction to the Flora
of New Zealand,' by Dr. Hooker, analogous and striking facts are
given in regard to the plants of that large island. Hence we see that
throughout the world, the plants growing on the more lofty mountains,
and on the temperate lowlands of the northern and southern hemispheres,
are sometimes identically the same; but they are much oftener
specifically distinct, though related to each other in a most remarkable
manner.

This brief abstract applies to plants alone: some strictly analogous
facts could be given on the distribution of terrestrial animals. In
marine productions, similar cases occur; as an example, I may quote a
remark by the highest authority, Professor Dana, that "it is certainly a
wonderful fact that New Zealand should have a closer resemblance in its
crustacea to Great Britain, its antipode, than to any other part of
the world." Sir J. Richardson, also, speaks of the reappearance on the
shores of New Zealand, Tasmania, etc., of northern forms of fish. Dr.
Hooker informs me that twenty-five species of Algae are common to New
Zealand and to Europe, but have not been found in the intermediate
tropical seas.

It should be observed that the northern species and forms found in the
southern parts of the southern hemisphere, and on the mountain-ranges
of the intertropical regions, are not arctic, but belong to the northern
temperate zones. As Mr. H. C. Watson has recently remarked, "In receding
from polar towards equatorial latitudes, the Alpine or mountain floras
really become less and less arctic." Many of the forms living on
the mountains of the warmer regions of the earth and in the southern
hemisphere are of doubtful value, being ranked by some naturalists as
specifically distinct, by others as varieties; but some are certainly
identical, and many, though closely related to northern forms, must be
ranked as distinct species.

Now let us see what light can be thrown on the foregoing facts, on the
belief, supported as it is by a large body of geological evidence, that
the whole world, or a large part of it, was during the Glacial period
simultaneously much colder than at present. The Glacial period, as
measured by years, must have been very long; and when we remember over
what vast spaces some naturalised plants and animals have spread within
a few centuries, this period will have been ample for any amount of
migration. As the cold came slowly on, all the tropical plants and other
productions will have retreated from both sides towards the equator,
followed in the rear by the temperate productions, and these by the
arctic; but with the latter we are not now concerned. The tropical
plants probably suffered much extinction; how much no one can say;
perhaps formerly the tropics supported as many species as we see at the
present day crowded together at the Cape of Good Hope, and in parts of
temperate Australia. As we know that many tropical plants and animals
can withstand a considerable amount of cold, many might have escaped
extermination during a moderate fall of temperature, more especially by
escaping into the warmest spots. But the great fact to bear in mind is,
that all tropical productions will have suffered to a certain extent. On
the other hand, the temperate productions, after migrating nearer to
the equator, though they will have been placed under somewhat new
conditions, will have suffered less. And it is certain that many
temperate plants, if protected from the inroads of competitors, can
withstand a much warmer climate than their own. Hence, it seems to
me possible, bearing in mind that the tropical productions were in
a suffering state and could not have presented a firm front against
intruders, that a certain number of the more vigorous and dominant
temperate forms might have penetrated the native ranks and have reached
or even crossed the equator. The invasion would, of course, have been
greatly favoured by high land, and perhaps by a dry climate; for Dr.
Falconer informs me that it is the damp with the heat of the tropics
which is so destructive to perennial plants from a temperate climate. On
the other hand, the most humid and hottest districts will have afforded
an asylum to the tropical natives. The mountain-ranges north-west of the
Himalaya, and the long line of the Cordillera, seem to have afforded two
great lines of invasion: and it is a striking fact, lately communicated
to me by Dr. Hooker, that all the flowering plants, about forty-six in
number, common to Tierra del Fuego and to Europe still exist in North
America, which must have lain on the line of march. But I do not doubt
that some temperate productions entered and crossed even the LOWLANDS of
the tropics at the period when the cold was most intense,--when arctic
forms had migrated some twenty-five degrees of latitude from their
native country and covered the land at the foot of the Pyrenees. At this
period of extreme cold, I believe that the climate under the equator at
the level of the sea was about the same with that now felt there at the
height of six or seven thousand feet. During this the coldest period, I
suppose that large spaces of the tropical lowlands were clothed with a
mingled tropical and temperate vegetation, like that now growing with
strange luxuriance at the base of the Himalaya, as graphically described
by Hooker.

Thus, as I believe, a considerable number of plants, a few terrestrial
animals, and some marine productions, migrated during the Glacial period
from the northern and southern temperate zones into the intertropical
regions, and some even crossed the equator. As the warmth returned,
these temperate forms would naturally ascend the higher mountains, being
exterminated on the lowlands; those which had not reached the equator,
would re-migrate northward or southward towards their former homes; but
the forms, chiefly northern, which had crossed the equator, would travel
still further from their homes into the more temperate latitudes of the
opposite hemisphere. Although we have reason to believe from geological
evidence that the whole body of arctic shells underwent scarcely any
modification during their long southern migration and re-migration
northward, the case may have been wholly different with those intruding
forms which settled themselves on the intertropical mountains, and in
the southern hemisphere. These being surrounded by strangers will have
had to compete with many new forms of life; and it is probable that
selected modifications in their structure, habits, and constitutions
will have profited them. Thus many of these wanderers, though still
plainly related by inheritance to their brethren of the northern or
southern hemispheres, now exist in their new homes as well-marked
varieties or as distinct species.

It is a remarkable fact, strongly insisted on by Hooker in regard to
America, and by Alph. de Candolle in regard to Australia, that many
more identical plants and allied forms have apparently migrated from the
north to the south, than in a reversed direction. We see, however, a
few southern vegetable forms on the mountains of Borneo and Abyssinia.
I suspect that this preponderant migration from north to south is due
to the greater extent of land in the north, and to the northern forms
having existed in their own homes in greater numbers, and having
consequently been advanced through natural selection and competition
to a higher stage of perfection or dominating power, than the southern
forms. And thus, when they became commingled during the Glacial period,
the northern forms were enabled to beat the less powerful southern
forms. Just in the same manner as we see at the present day, that very
many European productions cover the ground in La Plata, and in a lesser
degree in Australia, and have to a certain extent beaten the natives;
whereas extremely few southern forms have become naturalised in any part
of Europe, though hides, wool, and other objects likely to carry seeds
have been largely imported into Europe during the last two or three
centuries from La Plata, and during the last thirty or forty years
from Australia. Something of the same kind must have occurred on the
intertropical mountains: no doubt before the Glacial period they were
stocked with endemic Alpine forms; but these have almost everywhere
largely yielded to the more dominant forms, generated in the larger
areas and more efficient workshops of the north. In many islands the
native productions are nearly equalled or even outnumbered by the
naturalised; and if the natives have not been actually exterminated,
their numbers have been greatly reduced, and this is the first stage
towards extinction. A mountain is an island on the land; and the
intertropical mountains before the Glacial period must have been
completely isolated; and I believe that the productions of these islands
on the land yielded to those produced within the larger areas of the
north, just in the same way as the productions of real islands have
everywhere lately yielded to continental forms, naturalised by man's
agency.

I am far from supposing that all difficulties are removed on the view
here given in regard to the range and affinities of the allied species
which live in the northern and southern temperate zones and on the
mountains of the intertropical regions. Very many difficulties remain
to be solved. I do not pretend to indicate the exact lines and means
of migration, or the reason why certain species and not others have
migrated; why certain species have been modified and have given rise to
new groups of forms, and others have remained unaltered. We cannot hope
to explain such facts, until we can say why one species and not another
becomes naturalised by man's agency in a foreign land; why one ranges
twice or thrice as far, and is twice or thrice as common, as another
species within their own homes.

I have said that many difficulties remain to be solved: some of the
most remarkable are stated with admirable clearness by Dr. Hooker in
his botanical works on the antarctic regions. These cannot be here
discussed. I will only say that as far as regards the occurrence of
identical species at points so enormously remote as Kerguelen Land, New
Zealand, and Fuegia, I believe that towards the close of the Glacial
period, icebergs, as suggested by Lyell, have been largely concerned in
their dispersal. But the existence of several quite distinct species,
belonging to genera exclusively confined to the south, at these and
other distant points of the southern hemisphere, is, on my theory of
descent with modification, a far more remarkable case of difficulty. For
some of these species are so distinct, that we cannot suppose that there
has been time since the commencement of the Glacial period for their
migration, and for their subsequent modification to the necessary
degree. The facts seem to me to indicate that peculiar and very distinct
species have migrated in radiating lines from some common centre; and I
am inclined to look in the southern, as in the northern hemisphere, to a
former and warmer period, before the commencement of the Glacial period,
when the antarctic lands, now covered with ice, supported a highly
peculiar and isolated flora. I suspect that before this flora was
exterminated by the Glacial epoch, a few forms were widely dispersed
to various points of the southern hemisphere by occasional means of
transport, and by the aid, as halting-places, of existing and now sunken
islands, and perhaps at the commencement of the Glacial period, by
icebergs. By these means, as I believe, the southern shores of America,
Australia, New Zealand have become slightly tinted by the same peculiar
forms of vegetable life.

Sir C. Lyell in a striking passage has speculated, in language almost
identical with mine, on the effects of great alternations of climate on
geographical distribution. I believe that the world has recently felt
one of his great cycles of change; and that on this view, combined with
modification through natural selection, a multitude of facts in the
present distribution both of the same and of allied forms of life can be
explained. The living waters may be said to have flowed during one short
period from the north and from the south, and to have crossed at the
equator; but to have flowed with greater force from the north so as
to have freely inundated the south. As the tide leaves its drift in
horizontal lines, though rising higher on the shores where the tide
rises highest, so have the living waters left their living drift on our
mountain-summits, in a line gently rising from the arctic lowlands to
a great height under the equator. The various beings thus left stranded
may be compared with savage races of man, driven up and surviving in the
mountain-fastnesses of almost every land, which serve as a record,
full of interest to us, of the former inhabitants of the surrounding
lowlands.




12. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION--continued.

Distribution of fresh-water productions. On the inhabitants of oceanic
islands. Absence of Batrachians and of terrestrial Mammals. On the
relation of the inhabitants of islands to those of the nearest mainland.
On colonisation from the nearest source with subsequent modification.
Summary of the last and present chapters.

As lakes and river-systems are separated from each other by barriers of
land, it might have been thought that fresh-water productions would not
have ranged widely within the same country, and as the sea is apparently
a still more impassable barrier, that they never would have extended to
distant countries. But the case is exactly the reverse. Not only have
many fresh-water species, belonging to quite different classes, an
enormous range, but allied species prevail in a remarkable manner
throughout the world. I well remember, when first collecting in the
fresh waters of Brazil, feeling much surprise at the similarity of
the fresh-water insects, shells, etc., and at the dissimilarity of the
surrounding terrestrial beings, compared with those of Britain.

But this power in fresh-water productions of ranging widely, though so
unexpected, can, I think, in most cases be explained by their having
become fitted, in a manner highly useful to them, for short and frequent
migrations from pond to pond, or from stream to stream; and liability
to wide dispersal would follow from this capacity as an almost necessary
consequence. We can here consider only a few cases. In regard to fish, I
believe that the same species never occur in the fresh waters of distant
continents. But on the same continent the species often range widely and
almost capriciously; for two river-systems will have some fish in common
and some different. A few facts seem to favour the possibility of their
occasional transport by accidental means; like that of the live fish
not rarely dropped by whirlwinds in India, and the vitality of their
ova when removed from the water. But I am inclined to attribute the
dispersal of fresh-water fish mainly to slight changes within the recent
period in the level of the land, having caused rivers to flow into each
other. Instances, also, could be given of this having occurred during
floods, without any change of level. We have evidence in the loess of
the Rhine of considerable changes of level in the land within a very
recent geological period, and when the surface was peopled by existing
land and fresh-water shells. The wide difference of the fish on opposite
sides of continuous mountain-ranges, which from an early period must
have parted river-systems and completely prevented their inosculation,
seems to lead to this same conclusion. With respect to allied
fresh-water fish occurring at very distant points of the world, no doubt
there are many cases which cannot at present be explained: but some
fresh-water fish belong to very ancient forms, and in such cases
there will have been ample time for great geographical changes, and
consequently time and means for much migration. In the second place,
salt-water fish can with care be slowly accustomed to live in fresh
water; and, according to Valenciennes, there is hardly a single group of
fishes confined exclusively to fresh water, so that we may imagine that
a marine member of a fresh-water group might travel far along the shores
of the sea, and subsequently become modified and adapted to the fresh
waters of a distant land.

Some species of fresh-water shells have a very wide range, and allied
species, which, on my theory, are descended from a common parent and
must have proceeded from a single source, prevail throughout the world.
Their distribution at first perplexed me much, as their ova are not
likely to be transported by birds, and they are immediately killed
by sea water, as are the adults. I could not even understand how some
naturalised species have rapidly spread throughout the same country. But
two facts, which I have observed--and no doubt many others remain to be
observed--throw some light on this subject. When a duck suddenly emerges
from a pond covered with duck-weed, I have twice seen these little
plants adhering to its back; and it has happened to me, in removing
a little duck-weed from one aquarium to another, that I have quite
unintentionally stocked the one with fresh-water shells from the other.
But another agency is perhaps more effectual: I suspended a duck's feet,
which might represent those of a bird sleeping in a natural pond, in
an aquarium, where many ova of fresh-water shells were hatching; and
I found that numbers of the extremely minute and just hatched shells
crawled on the feet, and clung to them so firmly that when taken out
of the water they could not be jarred off, though at a somewhat more
advanced age they would voluntarily drop off. These just hatched
molluscs, though aquatic in their nature, survived on the duck's feet,
in damp air, from twelve to twenty hours; and in this length of time a
duck or heron might fly at least six or seven hundred miles, and would
be sure to alight on a pool or rivulet, if blown across sea to an
oceanic island or to any other distant point. Sir Charles Lyell also
informs me that a Dyticus has been caught with an Ancylus (a fresh-water
shell like a limpet) firmly adhering to it; and a water-beetle of
the same family, a Colymbetes, once flew on board the 'Beagle,' when
forty-five miles distant from the nearest land: how much farther it
might have flown with a favouring gale no one can tell.

With respect to plants, it has long been known what enormous ranges many
fresh-water and even marsh-species have, both over continents and to the
most remote oceanic islands. This is strikingly shown, as remarked by
Alph. de Candolle, in large groups of terrestrial plants, which have
only a very few aquatic members; for these latter seem immediately to
acquire, as if in consequence, a very wide range. I think favourable
means of dispersal explain this fact. I have before mentioned that earth
occasionally, though rarely, adheres in some quantity to the feet and
beaks of birds. Wading birds, which frequent the muddy edges of ponds,
if suddenly flushed, would be the most likely to have muddy feet.
Birds of this order I can show are the greatest wanderers, and are
occasionally found on the most remote and barren islands in the open
ocean; they would not be likely to alight on the surface of the sea, so
that the dirt would not be washed off their feet; when making land,
they would be sure to fly to their natural fresh-water haunts. I do not
believe that botanists are aware how charged the mud of ponds is with
seeds: I have tried several little experiments, but will here give only
the most striking case: I took in February three table-spoonfuls of
mud from three different points, beneath water, on the edge of a little
pond; this mud when dry weighed only 6 3/4 ounces; I kept it covered
up in my study for six months, pulling up and counting each plant as it
grew; the plants were of many kinds, and were altogether 537 in number;
and yet the viscid mud was all contained in a breakfast cup! Considering
these facts, I think it would be an inexplicable circumstance if
water-birds did not transport the seeds of fresh-water plants to vast
distances, and if consequently the range of these plants was not very
great. The same agency may have come into play with the eggs of some of
the smaller fresh-water animals.

Other and unknown agencies probably have also played a part. I have
stated that fresh-water fish eat some kinds of seeds, though they reject
many other kinds after having swallowed them; even small fish swallow
seeds of moderate size, as of the yellow water-lily and Potamogeton.
Herons and other birds, century after century, have gone on daily
devouring fish; they then take flight and go to other waters, or are
blown across the sea; and we have seen that seeds retain their power
of germination, when rejected in pellets or in excrement, many hours
afterwards. When I saw the great size of the seeds of that fine
water-lily, the Nelumbium, and remembered Alph. de Candolle's remarks
on this plant, I thought that its distribution must remain quite
inexplicable; but Audubon states that he found the seeds of the great
southern water-lily (probably, according to Dr. Hooker, the Nelumbium
luteum) in a heron's stomach; although I do not know the fact, yet
analogy makes me believe that a heron flying to another pond and getting
a hearty meal of fish, would probably reject from its stomach a pellet
containing the seeds of the Nelumbium undigested; or the seeds might be
dropped by the bird whilst feeding its young, in the same way as fish
are known sometimes to be dropped.

In considering these several means of distribution, it should be
remembered that when a pond or stream is first formed, for instance,
on a rising islet, it will be unoccupied; and a single seed or egg
will have a good chance of succeeding. Although there will always be a
struggle for life between the individuals of the species, however
few, already occupying any pond, yet as the number of kinds is small,
compared with those on the land, the competition will probably be less
severe between aquatic than between terrestrial species; consequently
an intruder from the waters of a foreign country, would have a better
chance of seizing on a place, than in the case of terrestrial colonists.
We should, also, remember that some, perhaps many, fresh-water
productions are low in the scale of nature, and that we have reason to
believe that such low beings change or become modified less quickly
than the high; and this will give longer time than the average for
the migration of the same aquatic species. We should not forget the
probability of many species having formerly ranged as continuously as
fresh-water productions ever can range, over immense areas, and having
subsequently become extinct in intermediate regions. But the wide
distribution of fresh-water plants and of the lower animals, whether
retaining the same identical form or in some degree modified, I believe
mainly depends on the wide dispersal of their seeds and eggs by animals,
more especially by fresh-water birds, which have large powers of flight,
and naturally travel from one to another and often distant piece of
water. Nature, like a careful gardener, thus takes her seeds from a bed
of a particular nature, and drops them in another equally well fitted
for them.

ON THE INHABITANTS OF OCEANIC ISLANDS.

We now come to the last of the three classes of facts, which I have
selected as presenting the greatest amount of difficulty, on the view
that all the individuals both of the same and of allied species have
descended from a single parent; and therefore have all proceeded from a
common birthplace, notwithstanding that in the course of time they have
come to inhabit distant points of the globe. I have already stated that
I cannot honestly admit Forbes's view on continental extensions, which,
if legitimately followed out, would lead to the belief that within the
recent period all existing islands have been nearly or quite joined to
some continent. This view would remove many difficulties, but it would
not, I think, explain all the facts in regard to insular productions. In
the following remarks I shall not confine myself to the mere question of
dispersal; but shall consider some other facts, which bear on the
truth of the two theories of independent creation and of descent with
modification.

The species of all kinds which inhabit oceanic islands are few in number
compared with those on equal continental areas: Alph. de Candolle admits
this for plants, and Wollaston for insects. If we look to the large
size and varied stations of New Zealand, extending over 780 miles of
latitude, and compare its flowering plants, only 750 in number, with
those on an equal area at the Cape of Good Hope or in Australia,
we must, I think, admit that something quite independently of any
difference in physical conditions has caused so great a difference in
number. Even the uniform county of Cambridge has 847 plants, and the
little island of Anglesea 764, but a few ferns and a few introduced
plants are included in these numbers, and the comparison in some other
respects is not quite fair. We have evidence that the barren island of
Ascension aboriginally possessed under half-a-dozen flowering plants;
yet many have become naturalised on it, as they have on New Zealand and
on every other oceanic island which can be named. In St. Helena there is
reason to believe that the naturalised plants and animals have nearly or
quite exterminated many native productions. He who admits the doctrine
of the creation of each separate species, will have to admit, that a
sufficient number of the best adapted plants and animals have not been
created on oceanic islands; for man has unintentionally stocked them
from various sources far more fully and perfectly than has nature.

Although in oceanic islands the number of kinds of inhabitants is
scanty, the proportion of endemic species (i.e. those found nowhere else
in the world) is often extremely large. If we compare, for instance, the
number of the endemic land-shells in Madeira, or of the endemic birds in
the Galapagos Archipelago, with the number found on any continent, and
then compare the area of the islands with that of the continent, we
shall see that this is true. This fact might have been expected on my
theory, for, as already explained, species occasionally arriving after
long intervals in a new and isolated district, and having to compete
with new associates, will be eminently liable to modification, and
will often produce groups of modified descendants. But it by no means
follows, that, because in an island nearly all the species of one class
are peculiar, those of another class, or of another section of the same
class, are peculiar; and this difference seems to depend on the species
which do not become modified having immigrated with facility and in a
body, so that their mutual relations have not been much disturbed. Thus
in the Galapagos Islands nearly every land-bird, but only two out of the
eleven marine birds, are peculiar; and it is obvious that marine birds
could arrive at these islands more easily than land-birds. Bermuda, on
the other hand, which lies at about the same distance from North America
as the Galapagos Islands do from South America, and which has a very
peculiar soil, does not possess one endemic land bird; and we know from
Mr. J. M. Jones's admirable account of Bermuda, that very many North
American birds, during their great annual migrations, visit either
periodically or occasionally this island. Madeira does not possess one
peculiar bird, and many European and African birds are almost every year
blown there, as I am informed by Mr. E. V. Harcourt. So that these two
islands of Bermuda and Madeira have been stocked by birds, which for
long ages have struggled together in their former homes, and have become
mutually adapted to each other; and when settled in their new homes,
each kind will have been kept by the others to their proper places and
habits, and will consequently have been little liable to modification.
Madeira, again, is inhabited by a wonderful number of peculiar
land-shells, whereas not one species of sea-shell is confined to its
shores: now, though we do not know how seashells are dispersed, yet
we can see that their eggs or larvae, perhaps attached to seaweed or
floating timber, or to the feet of wading-birds, might be transported
far more easily than land-shells, across three or four hundred miles of
open sea. The different orders of insects in Madeira apparently present
analogous facts.

Oceanic islands are sometimes deficient in certain classes, and
their places are apparently occupied by the other inhabitants; in the
Galapagos Islands reptiles, and in New Zealand gigantic wingless birds,
take the place of mammals. In the plants of the Galapagos Islands, Dr.
Hooker has shown that the proportional numbers of the different
orders are very different from what they are elsewhere. Such cases are
generally accounted for by the physical conditions of the islands;
but this explanation seems to me not a little doubtful. Facility of
immigration, I believe, has been at least as important as the nature of
the conditions.

Many remarkable little facts could be given with respect to the
inhabitants of remote islands. For instance, in certain islands not
tenanted by mammals, some of the endemic plants have beautifully hooked
seeds; yet few relations are more striking than the adaptation of hooked
seeds for transportal by the wool and fur of quadrupeds. This
case presents no difficulty on my view, for a hooked seed might be
transported to an island by some other means; and the plant then
becoming slightly modified, but still retaining its hooked seeds,
would form an endemic species, having as useless an appendage as any
rudimentary organ,--for instance, as the shrivelled wings under the
soldered elytra of many insular beetles. Again, islands often possess
trees or bushes belonging to orders which elsewhere include only
herbaceous species; now trees, as Alph. de Candolle has shown, generally
have, whatever the cause may be, confined ranges. Hence trees would be
little likely to reach distant oceanic islands; and an herbaceous plant,
though it would have no chance of successfully competing in stature
with a fully developed tree, when established on an island and having to
compete with herbaceous plants alone, might readily gain an advantage
by growing taller and taller and overtopping the other plants. If so,
natural selection would often tend to add to the stature of herbaceous
plants when growing on an island, to whatever order they belonged, and
thus convert them first into bushes and ultimately into trees.

With respect to the absence of whole orders on oceanic islands, Bory St.
Vincent long ago remarked that Batrachians (frogs, toads, newts) have
never been found on any of the many islands with which the great oceans
are studded. I have taken pains to verify this assertion, and I have
found it strictly true. I have, however, been assured that a frog exists
on the mountains of the great island of New Zealand; but I suspect that
this exception (if the information be correct) may be explained through
glacial agency. This general absence of frogs, toads, and newts on
so many oceanic islands cannot be accounted for by their physical
conditions; indeed it seems that islands are peculiarly well fitted for
these animals; for frogs have been introduced into Madeira, the Azores,
and Mauritius, and have multiplied so as to become a nuisance. But as
these animals and their spawn are known to be immediately killed by
sea-water, on my view we can see that there would be great difficulty in
their transportal across the sea, and therefore why they do not exist on
any oceanic island. But why, on the theory of creation, they should not
have been created there, it would be very difficult to explain.

Mammals offer another and similar case. I have carefully searched the
oldest voyages, but have not finished my search; as yet I have not found
a single instance, free from doubt, of a terrestrial mammal (excluding
domesticated animals kept by the natives) inhabiting an island situated
above 300 miles from a continent or great continental island; and
many islands situated at a much less distance are equally barren. The
Falkland Islands, which are inhabited by a wolf-like fox, come nearest
to an exception; but this group cannot be considered as oceanic, as it
lies on a bank connected with the mainland; moreover, icebergs formerly
brought boulders to its western shores, and they may have formerly
transported foxes, as so frequently now happens in the arctic regions.
Yet it cannot be said that small islands will not support small mammals,
for they occur in many parts of the world on very small islands, if
close to a continent; and hardly an island can be named on which our
smaller quadrupeds have not become naturalised and greatly multiplied.
It cannot be said, on the ordinary view of creation, that there has
not been time for the creation of mammals; many volcanic islands are
sufficiently ancient, as shown by the stupendous degradation which they
have suffered and by their tertiary strata: there has also been time
for the production of endemic species belonging to other classes; and on
continents it is thought that mammals appear and disappear at a quicker
rate than other and lower animals. Though terrestrial mammals do not
occur on oceanic islands, aerial mammals do occur on almost every
island. New Zealand possesses two bats found nowhere else in the world:
Norfolk Island, the Viti Archipelago, the Bonin Islands, the Caroline
and Marianne Archipelagoes, and Mauritius, all possess their peculiar
bats. Why, it may be asked, has the supposed creative force produced
bats and no other mammals on remote islands? On my view this question
can easily be answered; for no terrestrial mammal can be transported
across a wide space of sea, but bats can fly across. Bats have been seen
wandering by day far over the Atlantic Ocean; and two North American
species either regularly or occasionally visit Bermuda, at the distance
of 600 miles from the mainland. I hear from Mr. Tomes, who has specially
studied this family, that many of the same species have enormous ranges,
and are found on continents and on far distant islands. Hence we have
only to suppose that such wandering species have been modified through
natural selection in their new homes in relation to their new position,
and we can understand the presence of endemic bats on islands, with the
absence of all terrestrial mammals.

Besides the absence of terrestrial mammals in relation to the remoteness
of islands from continents, there is also a relation, to a certain
extent independent of distance, between the depth of the sea separating
an island from the neighbouring mainland, and the presence in both of
the same mammiferous species or of allied species in a more or less
modified condition. Mr. Windsor Earl has made some striking observations
on this head in regard to the great Malay Archipelago, which is
traversed near Celebes by a space of deep ocean; and this space
separates two widely distinct mammalian faunas. On either side the
islands are situated on moderately deep submarine banks, and they are
inhabited by closely allied or identical quadrupeds. No doubt some few
anomalies occur in this great archipelago, and there is much difficulty
in forming a judgment in some cases owing to the probable naturalisation
of certain mammals through man's agency; but we shall soon have much
light thrown on the natural history of this archipelago by the admirable
zeal and researches of Mr. Wallace. I have not as yet had time to follow
up this subject in all other quarters of the world; but as far as I have
gone, the relation generally holds good. We see Britain separated by a
shallow channel from Europe, and the mammals are the same on both
sides; we meet with analogous facts on many islands separated by similar
channels from Australia. The West Indian Islands stand on a deeply
submerged bank, nearly 1000 fathoms in depth, and here we find American
forms, but the species and even the genera are distinct. As the amount
of modification in all cases depends to a certain degree on the lapse
of time, and as during changes of level it is obvious that islands
separated by shallow channels are more likely to have been continuously
united within a recent period to the mainland than islands separated
by deeper channels, we can understand the frequent relation between the
depth of the sea and the degree of affinity of the mammalian inhabitants
of islands with those of a neighbouring continent,--an inexplicable
relation on the view of independent acts of creation.

All the foregoing remarks on the inhabitants of oceanic
islands,--namely, the scarcity of kinds--the richness in endemic forms
in particular classes or sections of classes,--the absence of whole
groups, as of batrachians, and of terrestrial mammals notwithstanding
the presence of aerial bats,--the singular proportions of certain
orders of plants,--herbaceous forms having been developed into trees,
etc.,--seem to me to accord better with the view of occasional means of
transport having been largely efficient in the long course of time, than
with the view of all our oceanic islands having been formerly connected
by continuous land with the nearest continent; for on this latter
view the migration would probably have been more complete; and if
modification be admitted, all the forms of life would have been more
equally modified, in accordance with the paramount importance of the
relation of organism to organism.

I do not deny that there are many and grave difficulties in
understanding how several of the inhabitants of the more remote islands,
whether still retaining the same specific form or modified since their
arrival, could have reached their present homes. But the probability of
many islands having existed as halting-places, of which not a wreck now
remains, must not be overlooked. I will here give a single instance of
one of the cases of difficulty. Almost all oceanic islands, even the
most isolated and smallest, are inhabited by land-shells, generally by
endemic species, but sometimes by species found elsewhere. Dr. Aug. A.
Gould has given several interesting cases in regard to the land-shells
of the islands of the Pacific. Now it is notorious that land-shells are
very easily killed by salt; their eggs, at least such as I have tried,
sink in sea-water and are killed by it. Yet there must be, on my view,
some unknown, but highly efficient means for their transportal. Would
the just-hatched young occasionally crawl on and adhere to the feet of
birds roosting on the ground, and thus get transported? It occurred to
me that land-shells, when hybernating and having a membranous diaphragm
over the mouth of the shell, might be floated in chinks of drifted
timber across moderately wide arms of the sea. And I found that several
species did in this state withstand uninjured an immersion in sea-water
during seven days: one of these shells was the Helix pomatia, and after
it had again hybernated I put it in sea-water for twenty days, and it
perfectly recovered. As this species has a thick calcareous operculum,
I removed it, and when it had formed a new membranous one, I immersed it
for fourteen days in sea-water, and it recovered and crawled away:
but more experiments are wanted on this head. The most striking and
important fact for us in regard to the inhabitants of islands, is their
affinity to those of the nearest mainland, without being actually the
same species. Numerous instances could be given of this fact. I will
give only one, that of the Galapagos Archipelago, situated under the
equator, between 500 and 600 miles from the shores of South America.
Here almost every product of the land and water bears the unmistakeable
stamp of the American continent. There are twenty-six land birds,
and twenty-five of these are ranked by Mr. Gould as distinct species,
supposed to have been created here; yet the close affinity of most of
these birds to American species in every character, in their habits,
gestures, and tones of voice, was manifest. So it is with the other
animals, and with nearly all the plants, as shown by Dr. Hooker in
his admirable memoir on the Flora of this archipelago. The naturalist,
looking at the inhabitants of these volcanic islands in the Pacific,
distant several hundred miles from the continent, yet feels that he is
standing on American land. Why should this be so? why should the species
which are supposed to have been created in the Galapagos Archipelago,
and nowhere else, bear so plain a stamp of affinity to those created in
America? There is nothing in the conditions of life, in the geological
nature of the islands, in their height or climate, or in the proportions
in which the several classes are associated together, which resembles
closely the conditions of the South American coast: in fact there is
a considerable dissimilarity in all these respects. On the other hand,
there is a considerable degree of resemblance in the volcanic nature
of the soil, in climate, height, and size of the islands, between
the Galapagos and Cape de Verde Archipelagos: but what an entire and
absolute difference in their inhabitants! The inhabitants of the Cape
de Verde Islands are related to those of Africa, like those of the
Galapagos to America. I believe this grand fact can receive no sort of
explanation on the ordinary view of independent creation; whereas on the
view here maintained, it is obvious that the Galapagos Islands would be
likely to receive colonists, whether by occasional means of transport or
by formerly continuous land, from America; and the Cape de Verde
Islands from Africa; and that such colonists would be liable to
modification;--the principle of inheritance still betraying their
original birthplace.

Many analogous facts could be given: indeed it is an almost universal
rule that the endemic productions of islands are related to those of the
nearest continent, or of other near islands. The exceptions are few, and
most of them can be explained. Thus the plants of Kerguelen Land, though
standing nearer to Africa than to America, are related, and that very
closely, as we know from Dr. Hooker's account, to those of America: but
on the view that this island has been mainly stocked by seeds brought
with earth and stones on icebergs, drifted by the prevailing currents,
this anomaly disappears. New Zealand in its endemic plants is much more
closely related to Australia, the nearest mainland, than to any other
region: and this is what might have been expected; but it is also
plainly related to South America, which, although the next nearest
continent, is so enormously remote, that the fact becomes an anomaly.
But this difficulty almost disappears on the view that both New Zealand,
South America, and other southern lands were long ago partially stocked
from a nearly intermediate though distant point, namely from the
antarctic islands, when they were clothed with vegetation, before the
commencement of the Glacial period. The affinity, which, though
feeble, I am assured by Dr. Hooker is real, between the flora of the
south-western corner of Australia and of the Cape of Good Hope, is a far
more remarkable case, and is at present inexplicable: but this affinity
is confined to the plants, and will, I do not doubt, be some day
explained.

The law which causes the inhabitants of an archipelago, though
specifically distinct, to be closely allied to those of the nearest
continent, we sometimes see displayed on a small scale, yet in a most
interesting manner, within the limits of the same archipelago. Thus the
several islands of the Galapagos Archipelago are tenanted, as I have
elsewhere shown, in a quite marvellous manner, by very closely related
species; so that the inhabitants of each separate island, though mostly
distinct, are related in an incomparably closer degree to each other
than to the inhabitants of any other part of the world. And this is just
what might have been expected on my view, for the islands are situated
so near each other that they would almost certainly receive
immigrants from the same original source, or from each other. But this
dissimilarity between the endemic inhabitants of the islands may be
used as an argument against my views; for it may be asked, how has it
happened in the several islands situated within sight of each other,
having the same geological nature, the same height, climate, etc., that
many of the immigrants should have been differently modified, though
only in a small degree. This long appeared to me a great difficulty: but
it arises in chief part from the deeply-seated error of considering
the physical conditions of a country as the most important for its
inhabitants; whereas it cannot, I think, be disputed that the nature of
the other inhabitants, with which each has to compete, is at least as
important, and generally a far more important element of success. Now
if we look to those inhabitants of the Galapagos Archipelago which are
found in other parts of the world (laying on one side for the moment
the endemic species, which cannot be here fairly included, as we are
considering how they have come to be modified since their arrival), we
find a considerable amount of difference in the several islands. This
difference might indeed have been expected on the view of the islands
having been stocked by occasional means of transport--a seed, for
instance, of one plant having been brought to one island, and that of
another plant to another island. Hence when in former times an immigrant
settled on any one or more of the islands, or when it subsequently
spread from one island to another, it would undoubtedly be exposed to
different conditions of life in the different islands, for it would
have to compete with different sets of organisms: a plant, for instance,
would find the best-fitted ground more perfectly occupied by distinct
plants in one island than in another, and it would be exposed to the
attacks of somewhat different enemies. If then it varied, natural
selection would probably favour different varieties in the different
islands. Some species, however, might spread and yet retain the same
character throughout the group, just as we see on continents some
species spreading widely and remaining the same.

The really surprising fact in this case of the Galapagos Archipelago,
and in a lesser degree in some analogous instances, is that the new
species formed in the separate islands have not quickly spread to the
other islands. But the islands, though in sight of each other, are
separated by deep arms of the sea, in most cases wider than the British
Channel, and there is no reason to suppose that they have at any former
period been continuously united. The currents of the sea are rapid and
sweep across the archipelago, and gales of wind are extraordinarily
rare; so that the islands are far more effectually separated from each
other than they appear to be on a map. Nevertheless a good many species,
both those found in other parts of the world and those confined to the
archipelago, are common to the several islands, and we may infer from
certain facts that these have probably spread from some one island
to the others. But we often take, I think, an erroneous view of the
probability of closely allied species invading each other's territory,
when put into free intercommunication. Undoubtedly if one species has
any advantage whatever over another, it will in a very brief time wholly
or in part supplant it; but if both are equally well fitted for their
own places in nature, both probably will hold their own places and keep
separate for almost any length of time. Being familiar with the fact
that many species, naturalised through man's agency, have spread with
astonishing rapidity over new countries, we are apt to infer that most
species would thus spread; but we should remember that the forms which
become naturalised in new countries are not generally closely allied to
the aboriginal inhabitants, but are very distinct species, belonging in
a large proportion of cases, as shown by Alph. de Candolle, to distinct
genera. In the Galapagos Archipelago, many even of the birds, though
so well adapted for flying from island to island, are distinct on each;
thus there are three closely-allied species of mocking-thrush, each
confined to its own island. Now let us suppose the mocking-thrush
of Chatham Island to be blown to Charles Island, which has its own
mocking-thrush: why should it succeed in establishing itself there?
We may safely infer that Charles Island is well stocked with its own
species, for annually more eggs are laid there than can possibly be
reared; and we may infer that the mocking-thrush peculiar to Charles
Island is at least as well fitted for its home as is the species
peculiar to Chatham Island. Sir C. Lyell and Mr. Wollaston have
communicated to me a remarkable fact bearing on this subject; namely,
that Madeira and the adjoining islet of Porto Santo possess many
distinct but representative land-shells, some of which live in
crevices of stone; and although large quantities of stone are annually
transported from Porto Santo to Madeira, yet this latter island has not
become colonised by the Porto Santo species: nevertheless both islands
have been colonised by some European land-shells, which no doubt had
some advantage over the indigenous species. From these considerations
I think we need not greatly marvel at the endemic and representative
species, which inhabit the several islands of the Galapagos Archipelago,
not having universally spread from island to island. In many other
instances, as in the several districts of the same continent,
pre-occupation has probably played an important part in checking the
commingling of species under the same conditions of life. Thus, the
south-east and south-west corners of Australia have nearly the same
physical conditions, and are united by continuous land, yet they are
inhabited by a vast number of distinct mammals, birds, and plants.

The principle which determines the general character of the fauna
and flora of oceanic islands, namely, that the inhabitants, when not
identically the same, yet are plainly related to the inhabitants of
that region whence colonists could most readily have been derived,--the
colonists having been subsequently modified and better fitted to their
new homes,--is of the widest application throughout nature. We see
this on every mountain, in every lake and marsh. For Alpine species,
excepting in so far as the same forms, chiefly of plants, have spread
widely throughout the world during the recent Glacial epoch, are related
to those of the surrounding lowlands;--thus we have in South America,
Alpine humming-birds, Alpine rodents, Alpine plants, etc., all of
strictly American forms, and it is obvious that a mountain, as it became
slowly upheaved, would naturally be colonised from the surrounding
lowlands. So it is with the inhabitants of lakes and marshes, excepting
in so far as great facility of transport has given the same general
forms to the whole world. We see this same principle in the blind
animals inhabiting the caves of America and of Europe. Other analogous
facts could be given. And it will, I believe, be universally found to
be true, that wherever in two regions, let them be ever so distant, many
closely allied or representative species occur, there will likewise be
found some identical species, showing, in accordance with the foregoing
view, that at some former period there has been intercommunication or
migration between the two regions. And wherever many closely-allied
species occur, there will be found many forms which some naturalists
rank as distinct species, and some as varieties; these doubtful forms
showing us the steps in the process of modification.

This relation between the power and extent of migration of a species,
either at the present time or at some former period under different
physical conditions, and the existence at remote points of the world of
other species allied to it, is shown in another and more general way.
Mr. Gould remarked to me long ago, that in those genera of birds which
range over the world, many of the species have very wide ranges. I
can hardly doubt that this rule is generally true, though it would be
difficult to prove it. Amongst mammals, we see it strikingly displayed
in Bats, and in a lesser degree in the Felidae and Canidae. We see it,
if we compare the distribution of butterflies and beetles. So it is with
most fresh-water productions, in which so many genera range over the
world, and many individual species have enormous ranges. It is not meant
that in world-ranging genera all the species have a wide range, or even
that they have on an AVERAGE a wide range; but only that some of the
species range very widely; for the facility with which widely-ranging
species vary and give rise to new forms will largely determine their
average range. For instance, two varieties of the same species inhabit
America and Europe, and the species thus has an immense range; but, if
the variation had been a little greater, the two varieties would have
been ranked as distinct species, and the common range would have been
greatly reduced. Still less is it meant, that a species which apparently
has the capacity of crossing barriers and ranging widely, as in the case
of certain powerfully-winged birds, will necessarily range widely; for
we should never forget that to range widely implies not only the power
of crossing barriers, but the more important power of being victorious
in distant lands in the struggle for life with foreign associates. But
on the view of all the species of a genus having descended from a single
parent, though now distributed to the most remote points of the world,
we ought to find, and I believe as a general rule we do find, that some
at least of the species range very widely; for it is necessary that the
unmodified parent should range widely, undergoing modification during
its diffusion, and should place itself under diverse conditions
favourable for the conversion of its offspring, firstly into new
varieties and ultimately into new species.

In considering the wide distribution of certain genera, we should bear
in mind that some are extremely ancient, and must have branched off from
a common parent at a remote epoch; so that in such cases there will
have been ample time for great climatal and geographical changes and for
accidents of transport; and consequently for the migration of some of
the species into all quarters of the world, where they may have become
slightly modified in relation to their new conditions. There is, also,
some reason to believe from geological evidence that organisms low in
the scale within each great class, generally change at a slower rate
than the higher forms; and consequently the lower forms will have had a
better chance of ranging widely and of still retaining the same specific
character. This fact, together with the seeds and eggs of many low forms
being very minute and better fitted for distant transportation, probably
accounts for a law which has long been observed, and which has lately
been admirably discussed by Alph. de Candolle in regard to plants,
namely, that the lower any group of organisms is, the more widely it is
apt to range.

The relations just discussed,--namely, low and slowly-changing
organisms ranging more widely than the high,--some of the species of
widely-ranging genera themselves ranging widely,--such facts, as alpine,
lacustrine, and marsh productions being related (with the exceptions
before specified) to those on the surrounding low lands and dry lands,
though these stations are so different--the very close relation of the
distinct species which inhabit the islets of the same archipelago,--and
especially the striking relation of the inhabitants of each whole
archipelago or island to those of the nearest mainland,--are, I think,
utterly inexplicable on the ordinary view of the independent creation
of each species, but are explicable on the view of colonisation from the
nearest and readiest source, together with the subsequent modification
and better adaptation of the colonists to their new homes.

SUMMARY OF LAST AND PRESENT CHAPTERS.

In these chapters I have endeavoured to show, that if we make due
allowance for our ignorance of the full effects of all the changes of
climate and of the level of the land, which have certainly occurred
within the recent period, and of other similar changes which may have
occurred within the same period; if we remember how profoundly ignorant
we are with respect to the many and curious means of occasional
transport,--a subject which has hardly ever been properly experimentised
on; if we bear in mind how often a species may have ranged continuously
over a wide area, and then have become extinct in the intermediate
tracts, I think the difficulties in believing that all the individuals
of the same species, wherever located, have descended from the same
parents, are not insuperable. And we are led to this conclusion, which
has been arrived at by many naturalists under the designation of single
centres of creation, by some general considerations, more especially
from the importance of barriers and from the analogical distribution of
sub-genera, genera, and families.

With respect to the distinct species of the same genus, which on my
theory must have spread from one parent-source; if we make the same
allowances as before for our ignorance, and remember that some forms of
life change most slowly, enormous periods of time being thus granted for
their migration, I do not think that the difficulties are insuperable;
though they often are in this case, and in that of the individuals of
the same species, extremely grave.

As exemplifying the effects of climatal changes on distribution, I have
attempted to show how important has been the influence of the modern
Glacial period, which I am fully convinced simultaneously affected
the whole world, or at least great meridional belts. As showing how
diversified are the means of occasional transport, I have discussed at
some little length the means of dispersal of fresh-water productions.

If the difficulties be not insuperable in admitting that in the long
course of time the individuals of the same species, and likewise of
allied species, have proceeded from some one source; then I think all
the grand leading facts of geographical distribution are explicable on
the theory of migration (generally of the more dominant forms of life),
together with subsequent modification and the multiplication of new
forms. We can thus understand the high importance of barriers, whether
of land or water, which separate our several zoological and botanical
provinces. We can thus understand the localisation of sub-genera,
genera, and families; and how it is that under different latitudes, for
instance in South America, the inhabitants of the plains and mountains,
of the forests, marshes, and deserts, are in so mysterious a manner
linked together by affinity, and are likewise linked to the extinct
beings which formerly inhabited the same continent. Bearing in mind
that the mutual relations of organism to organism are of the highest
importance, we can see why two areas having nearly the same physical
conditions should often be inhabited by very different forms of
life; for according to the length of time which has elapsed since
new inhabitants entered one region; according to the nature of the
communication which allowed certain forms and not others to enter,
either in greater or lesser numbers; according or not, as those which
entered happened to come in more or less direct competition with each
other and with the aborigines; and according as the immigrants were
capable of varying more or less rapidly, there would ensue in different
regions, independently of their physical conditions, infinitely
diversified conditions of life,--there would be an almost endless amount
of organic action and reaction,--and we should find, as we do find,
some groups of beings greatly, and some only slightly modified,--some
developed in great force, some existing in scanty numbers--in the
different great geographical provinces of the world.

On these same principles, we can understand, as I have endeavoured to
show, why oceanic islands should have few inhabitants, but of these a
great number should be endemic or peculiar; and why, in relation to the
means of migration, one group of beings, even within the same class,
should have all its species endemic, and another group should have all
its species common to other quarters of the world. We can see why whole
groups of organisms, as batrachians and terrestrial mammals, should be
absent from oceanic islands, whilst the most isolated islands possess
their own peculiar species of aerial mammals or bats. We can see why
there should be some relation between the presence of mammals, in a more
or less modified condition, and the depth of the sea between an island
and the mainland. We can clearly see why all the inhabitants of an
archipelago, though specifically distinct on the several islets, should
be closely related to each other, and likewise be related, but less
closely, to those of the nearest continent or other source whence
immigrants were probably derived. We can see why in two areas, however
distant from each other, there should be a correlation, in the presence
of identical species, of varieties, of doubtful species, and of distinct
but representative species.

As the late Edward Forbes often insisted, there is a striking
parallelism in the laws of life throughout time and space: the laws
governing the succession of forms in past times being nearly the same
with those governing at the present time the differences in different
areas. We see this in many facts. The endurance of each species and
group of species is continuous in time; for the exceptions to the rule
are so few, that they may fairly be attributed to our not having as
yet discovered in an intermediate deposit the forms which are therein
absent, but which occur above and below: so in space, it certainly is
the general rule that the area inhabited by a single species, or by a
group of species, is continuous; and the exceptions, which are not rare,
may, as I have attempted to show, be accounted for by migration at
some former period under different conditions or by occasional means of
transport, and by the species having become extinct in the intermediate
tracts. Both in time and space, species and groups of species have their
points of maximum development. Groups of species, belonging either to a
certain period of time, or to a certain area, are often characterised by
trifling characters in common, as of sculpture or colour. In looking
to the long succession of ages, as in now looking to distant provinces
throughout the world, we find that some organisms differ little, whilst
others belonging to a different class, or to a different order, or even
only to a different family of the same order, differ greatly. In both
time and space the lower members of each class generally change less
than the higher; but there are in both cases marked exceptions to the
rule. On my theory these several relations throughout time and space
are intelligible; for whether we look to the forms of life which have
changed during successive ages within the same quarter of the world, or
to those which have changed after having migrated into distant quarters,
in both cases the forms within each class have been connected by the
same bond of ordinary generation; and the more nearly any two forms are
related in blood, the nearer they will generally stand to each other in
time and space; in both cases the laws of variation have been the same,
and modifications have been accumulated by the same power of natural
selection.




13. MUTUAL AFFINITIES OF ORGANIC BEINGS: MORPHOLOGY:
EMBRYOLOGY: RUDIMENTARY ORGANS.

CLASSIFICATION, groups subordinate to groups. Natural system. Rules and
difficulties in classification, explained on the theory of descent
with modification. Classification of varieties. Descent always used in
classification. Analogical or adaptive characters. Affinities, general,
complex and radiating. Extinction separates and defines groups.
MORPHOLOGY, between members of the same class, between parts of the same
individual. EMBRYOLOGY, laws of, explained by variations not supervening
at an early age, and being inherited at a corresponding age. RUDIMENTARY
ORGANS; their origin explained. Summary.

From the first dawn of life, all organic beings are found to resemble
each other in descending degrees, so that they can be classed in groups
under groups. This classification is evidently not arbitrary like the
grouping of the stars in constellations. The existence of groups would
have been of simple signification, if one group had been exclusively
fitted to inhabit the land, and another the water; one to feed on flesh,
another on vegetable matter, and so on; but the case is widely different
in nature; for it is notorious how commonly members of even the same
subgroup have different habits. In our second and fourth chapters, on
Variation and on Natural Selection, I have attempted to show that it is
the widely ranging, the much diffused and common, that is the dominant
species belonging to the larger genera, which vary most. The varieties,
or incipient species, thus produced ultimately become converted, as I
believe, into new and distinct species; and these, on the principle
of inheritance, tend to produce other new and dominant species.
Consequently the groups which are now large, and which generally include
many dominant species, tend to go on increasing indefinitely in size.
I further attempted to show that from the varying descendants of each
species trying to occupy as many and as different places as possible in
the economy of nature, there is a constant tendency in their characters
to diverge. This conclusion was supported by looking at the great
diversity of the forms of life which, in any small area, come into the
closest competition, and by looking to certain facts in naturalisation.

I attempted also to show that there is a constant tendency in the forms
which are increasing in number and diverging in character, to supplant
and exterminate the less divergent, the less improved, and preceding
forms. I request the reader to turn to the diagram illustrating the
action, as formerly explained, of these several principles; and he
will see that the inevitable result is that the modified descendants
proceeding from one progenitor become broken up into groups subordinate
to groups. In the diagram each letter on the uppermost line may
represent a genus including several species; and all the genera on this
line form together one class, for all have descended from one ancient
but unseen parent, and, consequently, have inherited something in
common. But the three genera on the left hand have, on this same
principle, much in common, and form a sub-family, distinct from that
including the next two genera on the right hand, which diverged from a
common parent at the fifth stage of descent. These five genera have also
much, though less, in common; and they form a family distinct from
that including the three genera still further to the right hand, which
diverged at a still earlier period. And all these genera, descended from
(A), form an order distinct from the genera descended from (I). So that
we here have many species descended from a single progenitor grouped
into genera; and the genera are included in, or subordinate to,
sub-families, families, and orders, all united into one class. Thus, the
grand fact in natural history of the subordination of group under group,
which, from its familiarity, does not always sufficiently strike us, is
in my judgment fully explained.

Naturalists try to arrange the species, genera, and families in each
class, on what is called the Natural System. But what is meant by
this system? Some authors look at it merely as a scheme for arranging
together those living objects which are most alike, and for separating
those which are most unlike; or as an artificial means for enunciating,
as briefly as possible, general propositions,--that is, by one sentence
to give the characters common, for instance, to all mammals, by another
those common to all carnivora, by another those common to the dog-genus,
and then by adding a single sentence, a full description is given
of each kind of dog. The ingenuity and utility of this system are
indisputable. But many naturalists think that something more is meant
by the Natural System; they believe that it reveals the plan of the
Creator; but unless it be specified whether order in time or space,
or what else is meant by the plan of the Creator, it seems to me that
nothing is thus added to our knowledge. Such expressions as that
famous one of Linnaeus, and which we often meet with in a more or less
concealed form, that the characters do not make the genus, but that
the genus gives the characters, seem to imply that something more is
included in our classification, than mere resemblance. I believe that
something more is included; and that propinquity of descent,--the only
known cause of the similarity of organic beings,--is the bond, hidden as
it is by various degrees of modification, which is partially revealed to
us by our classifications.

Let us now consider the rules followed in classification, and the
difficulties which are encountered on the view that classification
either gives some unknown plan of creation, or is simply a scheme for
enunciating general propositions and of placing together the forms most
like each other. It might have been thought (and was in ancient times
thought) that those parts of the structure which determined the habits
of life, and the general place of each being in the economy of nature,
would be of very high importance in classification. Nothing can be more
false. No one regards the external similarity of a mouse to a shrew, of
a dugong to a whale, of a whale to a fish, as of any importance. These
resemblances, though so intimately connected with the whole life of the
being, are ranked as merely "adaptive or analogical characters;" but to
the consideration of these resemblances we shall have to recur. It
may even be given as a general rule, that the less any part of the
organisation is concerned with special habits, the more important it
becomes for classification. As an instance: Owen, in speaking of the
dugong, says, "The generative organs being those which are most remotely
related to the habits and food of an animal, I have always regarded as
affording very clear indications of its true affinities. We are least
likely in the modifications of these organs to mistake a merely adaptive
for an essential character." So with plants, how remarkable it is that
the organs of vegetation, on which their whole life depends, are of
little signification, excepting in the first main divisions; whereas the
organs of reproduction, with their product the seed, are of paramount
importance!

We must not, therefore, in classifying, trust to resemblances in parts
of the organisation, however important they may be for the welfare of
the being in relation to the outer world. Perhaps from this cause it has
partly arisen, that almost all naturalists lay the greatest stress on
resemblances in organs of high vital or physiological importance. No
doubt this view of the classificatory importance of organs which
are important is generally, but by no means always, true. But their
importance for classification, I believe, depends on their greater
constancy throughout large groups of species; and this constancy depends
on such organs having generally been subjected to less change in the
adaptation of the species to their conditions of life. That the
mere physiological importance of an organ does not determine its
classificatory value, is almost shown by the one fact, that in allied
groups, in which the same organ, as we have every reason to suppose, has
nearly the same physiological value, its classificatory value is widely
different. No naturalist can have worked at any group without being
struck with this fact; and it has been most fully acknowledged in the
writings of almost every author. It will suffice to quote the highest
authority, Robert Brown, who in speaking of certain organs in the
Proteaceae, says their generic importance, "like that of all their
parts, not only in this but, as I apprehend, in every natural family,
is very unequal, and in some cases seems to be entirely lost." Again in
another work he says, the genera of the Connaraceae "differ in having
one or more ovaria, in the existence or absence of albumen, in the
imbricate or valvular aestivation. Any one of these characters singly
is frequently of more than generic importance, though here even when
all taken together they appear insufficient to separate Cnestis from
Connarus." To give an example amongst insects, in one great division
of the Hymenoptera, the antennae, as Westwood has remarked, are most
constant in structure; in another division they differ much, and the
differences are of quite subordinate value in classification; yet no one
probably will say that the antennae in these two divisions of the same
order are of unequal physiological importance. Any number of instances
could be given of the varying importance for classification of the same
important organ within the same group of beings.

Again, no one will say that rudimentary or atrophied organs are of high
physiological or vital importance; yet, undoubtedly, organs in this
condition are often of high value in classification. No one will dispute
that the rudimentary teeth in the upper jaws of young ruminants,
and certain rudimentary bones of the leg, are highly serviceable in
exhibiting the close affinity between Ruminants and Pachyderms. Robert
Brown has strongly insisted on the fact that the rudimentary florets are
of the highest importance in the classification of the Grasses.

Numerous instances could be given of characters derived from parts which
must be considered of very trifling physiological importance, but which
are universally admitted as highly serviceable in the definition of
whole groups. For instance, whether or not there is an open passage from
the nostrils to the mouth, the only character, according to Owen, which
absolutely distinguishes fishes and reptiles--the inflection of the
angle of the jaws in Marsupials--the manner in which the wings of
insects are folded--mere colour in certain Algae--mere pubescence on
parts of the flower in grasses--the nature of the dermal covering, as
hair or feathers, in the Vertebrata. If the Ornithorhynchus had been
covered with feathers instead of hair, this external and trifling
character would, I think, have been considered by naturalists as
important an aid in determining the degree of affinity of this strange
creature to birds and reptiles, as an approach in structure in any one
internal and important organ.

The importance, for classification, of trifling characters, mainly
depends on their being correlated with several other characters of more
or less importance. The value indeed of an aggregate of characters is
very evident in natural history. Hence, as has often been remarked, a
species may depart from its allies in several characters, both of high
physiological importance and of almost universal prevalence, and yet
leave us in no doubt where it should be ranked. Hence, also, it has been
found, that a classification founded on any single character,
however important that may be, has always failed; for no part of the
organisation is universally constant. The importance of an aggregate of
characters, even when none are important, alone explains, I think, that
saying of Linnaeus, that the characters do not give the genus, but
the genus gives the characters; for this saying seems founded on an
appreciation of many trifling points of resemblance, too slight to be
defined. Certain plants, belonging to the Malpighiaceae, bear perfect
and degraded flowers; in the latter, as A. de Jussieu has remarked, "the
greater number of the characters proper to the species, to the genus,
to the family, to the class, disappear, and thus laugh at our
classification." But when Aspicarpa produced in France, during several
years, only degraded flowers, departing so wonderfully in a number
of the most important points of structure from the proper type of the
order, yet M. Richard sagaciously saw, as Jussieu observes, that this
genus should still be retained amongst the Malpighiaceae. This case
seems to me well to illustrate the spirit with which our classifications
are sometimes necessarily founded.

Practically when naturalists are at work, they do not trouble themselves
about the physiological value of the characters which they use in
defining a group, or in allocating any particular species. If they find
a character nearly uniform, and common to a great number of forms, and
not common to others, they use it as one of high value; if common to
some lesser number, they use it as of subordinate value. This principle
has been broadly confessed by some naturalists to be the true one; and
by none more clearly than by that excellent botanist, Aug. St. Hilaire.
If certain characters are always found correlated with others, though
no apparent bond of connexion can be discovered between them, especial
value is set on them. As in most groups of animals, important organs,
such as those for propelling the blood, or for aerating it, or those for
propagating the race, are found nearly uniform, they are considered as
highly serviceable in classification; but in some groups of animals all
these, the most important vital organs, are found to offer characters of
quite subordinate value.

We can see why characters derived from the embryo should be of equal
importance with those derived from the adult, for our classifications of
course include all ages of each species. But it is by no means obvious,
on the ordinary view, why the structure of the embryo should be more
important for this purpose than that of the adult, which alone plays its
full part in the economy of nature. Yet it has been strongly urged
by those great naturalists, Milne Edwards and Agassiz, that embryonic
characters are the most important of any in the classification of
animals; and this doctrine has very generally been admitted as true.
The same fact holds good with flowering plants, of which the two main
divisions have been founded on characters derived from the embryo,--on
the number and position of the embryonic leaves or cotyledons, and on
the mode of development of the plumule and radicle. In our discussion
on embryology, we shall see why such characters are so valuable, on the
view of classification tacitly including the idea of descent.

Our classifications are often plainly influenced by chains of
affinities. Nothing can be easier than to define a number of characters
common to all birds; but in the case of crustaceans, such definition has
hitherto been found impossible. There are crustaceans at the opposite
ends of the series, which have hardly a character in common; yet the
species at both ends, from being plainly allied to others, and these to
others, and so onwards, can be recognised as unequivocally belonging to
this, and to no other class of the Articulata.

Geographical distribution has often been used, though perhaps not quite
logically, in classification, more especially in very large groups of
closely allied forms. Temminck insists on the utility or even necessity
of this practice in certain groups of birds; and it has been followed by
several entomologists and botanists.

Finally, with respect to the comparative value of the various groups of
species, such as orders, sub-orders, families, sub-families, and genera,
they seem to be, at least at present, almost arbitrary. Several of the
best botanists, such as Mr. Bentham and others, have strongly insisted
on their arbitrary value. Instances could be given amongst plants and
insects, of a group of forms, first ranked by practised naturalists as
only a genus, and then raised to the rank of a sub-family or family; and
this has been done, not because further research has detected important
structural differences, at first overlooked, but because numerous
allied species, with slightly different grades of difference, have been
subsequently discovered.

All the foregoing rules and aids and difficulties in classification
are explained, if I do not greatly deceive myself, on the view that
the natural system is founded on descent with modification; that the
characters which naturalists consider as showing true affinity between
any two or more species, are those which have been inherited from a
common parent, and, in so far, all true classification is genealogical;
that community of descent is the hidden bond which naturalists have been
unconsciously seeking, and not some unknown plan of creation, or the
enunciation of general propositions, and the mere putting together and
separating objects more or less alike.

But I must explain my meaning more fully. I believe that the ARRANGEMENT
of the groups within each class, in due subordination and relation to
the other groups, must be strictly genealogical in order to be natural;
but that the AMOUNT of difference in the several branches or groups,
though allied in the same degree in blood to their common progenitor,
may differ greatly, being due to the different degrees of modification
which they have undergone; and this is expressed by the forms being
ranked under different genera, families, sections, or orders. The reader
will best understand what is meant, if he will take the trouble of
referring to the diagram in the fourth chapter. We will suppose the
letters A to L to represent allied genera, which lived during the
Silurian epoch, and these have descended from a species which existed at
an unknown anterior period. Species of three of these genera (A, F, and
I) have transmitted modified descendants to the present day, represented
by the fifteen genera (a14 to z14) on the uppermost horizontal line. Now
all these modified descendants from a single species, are represented as
related in blood or descent to the same degree; they may metaphorically
be called cousins to the same millionth degree; yet they differ widely
and in different degrees from each other. The forms descended from A,
now broken up into two or three families, constitute a distinct order
from those descended from I, also broken up into two families. Nor can
the existing species, descended from A, be ranked in the same genus with
the parent A; or those from I, with the parent I. But the existing genus
F14 may be supposed to have been but slightly modified; and it will
then rank with the parent-genus F; just as some few still living organic
beings belong to Silurian genera. So that the amount or value of the
differences between organic beings all related to each other in the same
degree in blood, has come to be widely different. Nevertheless their
genealogical ARRANGEMENT remains strictly true, not only at the present
time, but at each successive period of descent. All the modified
descendants from A will have inherited something in common from their
common parent, as will all the descendants from I; so will it be with
each subordinate branch of descendants, at each successive period. If,
however, we choose to suppose that any of the descendants of A or of
I have been so much modified as to have more or less completely lost
traces of their parentage, in this case, their places in a natural
classification will have been more or less completely lost,--as
sometimes seems to have occurred with existing organisms. All the
descendants of the genus F, along its whole line of descent, are
supposed to have been but little modified, and they yet form a single
genus. But this genus, though much isolated, will still occupy its
proper intermediate position; for F originally was intermediate in
character between A and I, and the several genera descended from these
two genera will have inherited to a certain extent their characters.
This natural arrangement is shown, as far as is possible on paper, in
the diagram, but in much too simple a manner. If a branching diagram had
not been used, and only the names of the groups had been written in a
linear series, it would have been still less possible to have given a
natural arrangement; and it is notoriously not possible to represent in
a series, on a flat surface, the affinities which we discover in nature
amongst the beings of the same group. Thus, on the view which I hold,
the natural system is genealogical in its arrangement, like a pedigree;
but the degrees of modification which the different groups have
undergone, have to be expressed by ranking them under different
so-called genera, sub-families, families, sections, orders, and classes.

It may be worth while to illustrate this view of classification, by
taking the case of languages. If we possessed a perfect pedigree of
mankind, a genealogical arrangement of the races of man would afford the
best classification of the various languages now spoken throughout the
world; and if all extinct languages, and all intermediate and slowly
changing dialects, had to be included, such an arrangement would, I
think, be the only possible one. Yet it might be that some very ancient
language had altered little, and had given rise to few new languages,
whilst others (owing to the spreading and subsequent isolation and
states of civilisation of the several races, descended from a common
race) had altered much, and had given rise to many new languages and
dialects. The various degrees of difference in the languages from the
same stock, would have to be expressed by groups subordinate to
groups; but the proper or even only possible arrangement would still be
genealogical; and this would be strictly natural, as it would connect
together all languages, extinct and modern, by the closest affinities,
and would give the filiation and origin of each tongue.

In confirmation of this view, let us glance at the classification
of varieties, which are believed or known to have descended from one
species. These are grouped under species, with sub-varieties under
varieties; and with our domestic productions, several other grades of
difference are requisite, as we have seen with pigeons. The origin
of the existence of groups subordinate to groups, is the same with
varieties as with species, namely, closeness of descent with various
degrees of modification. Nearly the same rules are followed in
classifying varieties, as with species. Authors have insisted on the
necessity of classing varieties on a natural instead of an artificial
system; we are cautioned, for instance, not to class two varieties of
the pine-apple together, merely because their fruit, though the most
important part, happens to be nearly identical; no one puts the swedish
and common turnips together, though the esculent and thickened stems
are so similar. Whatever part is found to be most constant, is used in
classing varieties: thus the great agriculturist Marshall says the horns
are very useful for this purpose with cattle, because they are less
variable than the shape or colour of the body, etc.; whereas with sheep
the horns are much less serviceable, because less constant. In classing
varieties, I apprehend if we had a real pedigree, a genealogical
classification would be universally preferred; and it has been attempted
by some authors. For we might feel sure, whether there had been more
or less modification, the principle of inheritance would keep the forms
together which were allied in the greatest number of points. In tumbler
pigeons, though some sub-varieties differ from the others in the
important character of having a longer beak, yet all are kept together
from having the common habit of tumbling; but the short-faced breed has
nearly or quite lost this habit; nevertheless, without any reasoning
or thinking on the subject, these tumblers are kept in the same group,
because allied in blood and alike in some other respects. If it could be
proved that the Hottentot had descended from the Negro, I think he would
be classed under the Negro group, however much he might differ in colour
and other important characters from negroes.

With species in a state of nature, every naturalist has in fact brought
descent into his classification; for he includes in his lowest grade,
or that of a species, the two sexes; and how enormously these sometimes
differ in the most important characters, is known to every naturalist:
scarcely a single fact can be predicated in common of the males and
hermaphrodites of certain cirripedes, when adult, and yet no one dreams
of separating them. The naturalist includes as one species the several
larval stages of the same individual, however much they may differ from
each other and from the adult; as he likewise includes the so-called
alternate generations of Steenstrup, which can only in a technical sense
be considered as the same individual. He includes monsters; he includes
varieties, not solely because they closely resemble the parent-form, but
because they are descended from it. He who believes that the cowslip
is descended from the primrose, or conversely, ranks them together as
a single species, and gives a single definition. As soon as three
Orchidean forms (Monochanthus, Myanthus, and Catasetum), which had
previously been ranked as three distinct genera, were known to be
sometimes produced on the same spike, they were immediately included as
a single species. But it may be asked, what ought we to do, if it could
be proved that one species of kangaroo had been produced, by a long
course of modification, from a bear? Ought we to rank this one
species with bears, and what should we do with the other species?
The supposition is of course preposterous; and I might answer by the
argumentum ad hominem, and ask what should be done if a perfect kangaroo
were seen to come out of the womb of a bear? According to all analogy,
it would be ranked with bears; but then assuredly all the other species
of the kangaroo family would have to be classed under the bear genus.
The whole case is preposterous; for where there has been close descent
in common, there will certainly be close resemblance or affinity.

As descent has universally been used in classing together the
individuals of the same species, though the males and females and larvae
are sometimes extremely different; and as it has been used in classing
varieties which have undergone a certain, and sometimes a considerable
amount of modification, may not this same element of descent have been
unconsciously used in grouping species under genera, and genera under
higher groups, though in these cases the modification has been greater
in degree, and has taken a longer time to complete? I believe it has
thus been unconsciously used; and only thus can I understand the several
rules and guides which have been followed by our best systematists. We
have no written pedigrees; we have to make out community of descent by
resemblances of any kind. Therefore we choose those characters which,
as far as we can judge, are the least likely to have been modified
in relation to the conditions of life to which each species has been
recently exposed. Rudimentary structures on this view are as good as, or
even sometimes better than, other parts of the organisation. We care not
how trifling a character may be--let it be the mere inflection of
the angle of the jaw, the manner in which an insect's wing is folded,
whether the skin be covered by hair or feathers--if it prevail
throughout many and different species, especially those having very
different habits of life, it assumes high value; for we can account for
its presence in so many forms with such different habits, only by its
inheritance from a common parent. We may err in this respect in regard
to single points of structure, but when several characters, let them
be ever so trifling, occur together throughout a large group of beings
having different habits, we may feel almost sure, on the theory of
descent, that these characters have been inherited from a common
ancestor. And we know that such correlated or aggregated characters have
especial value in classification.

We can understand why a species or a group of species may depart, in
several of its most important characteristics, from its allies, and yet
be safely classed with them. This may be safely done, and is often
done, as long as a sufficient number of characters, let them be ever so
unimportant, betrays the hidden bond of community of descent. Let two
forms have not a single character in common, yet if these extreme forms
are connected together by a chain of intermediate groups, we may at
once infer their community of descent, and we put them all into the same
class. As we find organs of high physiological importance--those
which serve to preserve life under the most diverse conditions of
existence--are generally the most constant, we attach especial value to
them; but if these same organs, in another group or section of a
group, are found to differ much, we at once value them less in
our classification. We shall hereafter, I think, clearly see why
embryological characters are of such high classificatory importance.
Geographical distribution may sometimes be brought usefully into play in
classing large and widely-distributed genera, because all the species of
the same genus, inhabiting any distinct and isolated region, have in all
probability descended from the same parents.

We can understand, on these views, the very important distinction
between real affinities and analogical or adaptive resemblances.
Lamarck first called attention to this distinction, and he has been ably
followed by Macleay and others. The resemblance, in the shape of the
body and in the fin-like anterior limbs, between the dugong, which is a
pachydermatous animal, and the whale, and between both these mammals and
fishes, is analogical. Amongst insects there are innumerable instances:
thus Linnaeus, misled by external appearances, actually classed an
homopterous insect as a moth. We see something of the same kind even
in our domestic varieties, as in the thickened stems of the common and
swedish turnip. The resemblance of the greyhound and racehorse is hardly
more fanciful than the analogies which have been drawn by some authors
between very distinct animals. On my view of characters being of real
importance for classification, only in so far as they reveal descent, we
can clearly understand why analogical or adaptive character, although of
the utmost importance to the welfare of the being, are almost valueless
to the systematist. For animals, belonging to two most distinct lines
of descent, may readily become adapted to similar conditions, and thus
assume a close external resemblance; but such resemblances will not
reveal--will rather tend to conceal their blood-relationship to their
proper lines of descent. We can also understand the apparent paradox,
that the very same characters are analogical when one class or order is
compared with another, but give true affinities when the members of the
same class or order are compared one with another: thus the shape of
the body and fin-like limbs are only analogical when whales are compared
with fishes, being adaptations in both classes for swimming through the
water; but the shape of the body and fin-like limbs serve as characters
exhibiting true affinity between the several members of the whale
family; for these cetaceans agree in so many characters, great and
small, that we cannot doubt that they have inherited their general shape
of body and structure of limbs from a common ancestor. So it is with
fishes.

As members of distinct classes have often been adapted by successive
slight modifications to live under nearly similar circumstances,--to
inhabit for instance the three elements of land, air, and water,--we can
perhaps understand how it is that a numerical parallelism has sometimes
been observed between the sub-groups in distinct classes. A naturalist,
struck by a parallelism of this nature in any one class, by arbitrarily
raising or sinking the value of the groups in other classes (and all our
experience shows that this valuation has hitherto been arbitrary), could
easily extend the parallelism over a wide range; and thus the septenary,
quinary, quaternary, and ternary classifications have probably arisen.

As the modified descendants of dominant species, belonging to the larger
genera, tend to inherit the advantages, which made the groups to which
they belong large and their parents dominant, they are almost sure to
spread widely, and to seize on more and more places in the economy
of nature. The larger and more dominant groups thus tend to go on
increasing in size; and they consequently supplant many smaller and
feebler groups. Thus we can account for the fact that all organisms,
recent and extinct, are included under a few great orders, under still
fewer classes, and all in one great natural system. As showing how
few the higher groups are in number, and how widely spread they are
throughout the world, the fact is striking, that the discovery of
Australia has not added a single insect belonging to a new order; and
that in the vegetable kingdom, as I learn from Dr. Hooker, it has added
only two or three orders of small size.

In the chapter on geological succession I attempted to show, on the
principle of each group having generally diverged much in character
during the long-continued process of modification, how it is that the
more ancient forms of life often present characters in some slight
degree intermediate between existing groups. A few old and intermediate
parent-forms having occasionally transmitted to the present day
descendants but little modified, will give to us our so-called osculant
or aberrant groups. The more aberrant any form is, the greater must be
the number of connecting forms which on my theory have been exterminated
and utterly lost. And we have some evidence of aberrant forms having
suffered severely from extinction, for they are generally represented by
extremely few species; and such species as do occur are generally very
distinct from each other, which again implies extinction. The genera
Ornithorhynchus and Lepidosiren, for example, would not have been less
aberrant had each been represented by a dozen species instead of by
a single one; but such richness in species, as I find after some
investigation, does not commonly fall to the lot of aberrant genera. We
can, I think, account for this fact only by looking at aberrant forms
as failing groups conquered by more successful competitors, with a
few members preserved by some unusual coincidence of favourable
circumstances.

Mr. Waterhouse has remarked that, when a member belonging to one group
of animals exhibits an affinity to a quite distinct group, this affinity
in most cases is general and not special: thus, according to Mr.
Waterhouse, of all Rodents, the bizcacha is most nearly related to
Marsupials; but in the points in which it approaches this order, its
relations are general, and not to any one marsupial species more than
to another. As the points of affinity of the bizcacha to Marsupials are
believed to be real and not merely adaptive, they are due on my theory
to inheritance in common. Therefore we must suppose either that all
Rodents, including the bizcacha, branched off from some very ancient
Marsupial, which will have had a character in some degree intermediate
with respect to all existing Marsupials; or that both Rodents and
Marsupials branched off from a common progenitor, and that both groups
have since undergone much modification in divergent directions.
On either view we may suppose that the bizcacha has retained, by
inheritance, more of the character of its ancient progenitor than have
other Rodents; and therefore it will not be specially related to any one
existing Marsupial, but indirectly to all or nearly all Marsupials, from
having partially retained the character of their common progenitor, or
of an early member of the group. On the other hand, of all Marsupials,
as Mr. Waterhouse has remarked, the phascolomys resembles most nearly,
not any one species, but the general order of Rodents. In this case,
however, it may be strongly suspected that the resemblance is only
analogical, owing to the phascolomys having become adapted to habits
like those of a Rodent. The elder De Candolle has made nearly similar
observations on the general nature of the affinities of distinct orders
of plants.

On the principle of the multiplication and gradual divergence in
character of the species descended from a common parent, together with
their retention by inheritance of some characters in common, we can
understand the excessively complex and radiating affinities by which all
the members of the same family or higher group are connected together.
For the common parent of a whole family of species, now broken up by
extinction into distinct groups and sub-groups, will have transmitted
some of its characters, modified in various ways and degrees, to all;
and the several species will consequently be related to each other by
circuitous lines of affinity of various lengths (as may be seen in the
diagram so often referred to), mounting up through many predecessors.
As it is difficult to show the blood-relationship between the
numerous kindred of any ancient and noble family, even by the aid of a
genealogical tree, and almost impossible to do this without this aid,
we can understand the extraordinary difficulty which naturalists have
experienced in describing, without the aid of a diagram, the various
affinities which they perceive between the many living and extinct
members of the same great natural class.

Extinction, as we have seen in the fourth chapter, has played an
important part in defining and widening the intervals between the
several groups in each class. We may thus account even for the
distinctness of whole classes from each other--for instance, of birds
from all other vertebrate animals--by the belief that many ancient forms
of life have been utterly lost, through which the early progenitors of
birds were formerly connected with the early progenitors of the other
vertebrate classes. There has been less entire extinction of the forms
of life which once connected fishes with batrachians. There has been
still less in some other classes, as in that of the Crustacea, for here
the most wonderfully diverse forms are still tied together by a long,
but broken, chain of affinities. Extinction has only separated groups:
it has by no means made them; for if every form which has ever lived
on this earth were suddenly to reappear, though it would be
quite impossible to give definitions by which each group could be
distinguished from other groups, as all would blend together by steps
as fine as those between the finest existing varieties, nevertheless
a natural classification, or at least a natural arrangement, would be
possible. We shall see this by turning to the diagram: the letters, A
to L, may represent eleven Silurian genera, some of which have produced
large groups of modified descendants. Every intermediate link between
these eleven genera and their primordial parent, and every intermediate
link in each branch and sub-branch of their descendants, may be supposed
to be still alive; and the links to be as fine as those between the
finest varieties. In this case it would be quite impossible to give any
definition by which the several members of the several groups could be
distinguished from their more immediate parents; or these parents from
their ancient and unknown progenitor. Yet the natural arrangement in the
diagram would still hold good; and, on the principle of inheritance, all
the forms descended from A, or from I, would have something in common.
In a tree we can specify this or that branch, though at the actual fork
the two unite and blend together. We could not, as I have said, define
the several groups; but we could pick out types, or forms, representing
most of the characters of each group, whether large or small, and thus
give a general idea of the value of the differences between them. This
is what we should be driven to, if we were ever to succeed in collecting
all the forms in any class which have lived throughout all time
and space. We shall certainly never succeed in making so perfect a
collection: nevertheless, in certain classes, we are tending in this
direction; and Milne Edwards has lately insisted, in an able paper, on
the high importance of looking to types, whether or not we can separate
and define the groups to which such types belong.

Finally, we have seen that natural selection, which results from the
struggle for existence, and which almost inevitably induces extinction
and divergence of character in the many descendants from one dominant
parent-species, explains that great and universal feature in the
affinities of all organic beings, namely, their subordination in group
under group. We use the element of descent in classing the individuals
of both sexes and of all ages, although having few characters in common,
under one species; we use descent in classing acknowledged varieties,
however different they may be from their parent; and I believe this
element of descent is the hidden bond of connexion which naturalists
have sought under the term of the Natural System. On this idea of the
natural system being, in so far as it has been perfected, genealogical
in its arrangement, with the grades of difference between the
descendants from a common parent, expressed by the terms genera,
families, orders, etc., we can understand the rules which we are
compelled to follow in our classification. We can understand why we
value certain resemblances far more than others; why we are permitted to
use rudimentary and useless organs, or others of trifling physiological
importance; why, in comparing one group with a distinct group, we
summarily reject analogical or adaptive characters, and yet use these
same characters within the limits of the same group. We can clearly see
how it is that all living and extinct forms can be grouped together
in one great system; and how the several members of each class
are connected together by the most complex and radiating lines of
affinities. We shall never, probably, disentangle the inextricable web
of affinities between the members of any one class; but when we have
a distinct object in view, and do not look to some unknown plan of
creation, we may hope to make sure but slow progress.

MORPHOLOGY.

We have seen that the members of the same class, independently of
their habits of life, resemble each other in the general plan of their
organisation. This resemblance is often expressed by the term "unity of
type;" or by saying that the several parts and organs in the different
species of the class are homologous. The whole subject is included under
the general name of Morphology. This is the most interesting department
of natural history, and may be said to be its very soul. What can be
more curious than that the hand of a man, formed for grasping, that of a
mole for digging, the leg of the horse, the paddle of the porpoise, and
the wing of the bat, should all be constructed on the same pattern, and
should include the same bones, in the same relative positions? Geoffroy
St. Hilaire has insisted strongly on the high importance of relative
connexion in homologous organs: the parts may change to almost any
extent in form and size, and yet they always remain connected together
in the same order. We never find, for instance, the bones of the arm and
forearm, or of the thigh and leg, transposed. Hence the same names can
be given to the homologous bones in widely different animals. We see the
same great law in the construction of the mouths of insects: what can
be more different than the immensely long spiral proboscis of a
sphinx-moth, the curious folded one of a bee or bug, and the great jaws
of a beetle?--yet all these organs, serving for such different purposes,
are formed by infinitely numerous modifications of an upper lip,
mandibles, and two pairs of maxillae. Analogous laws govern the
construction of the mouths and limbs of crustaceans. So it is with the
flowers of plants.

Nothing can be more hopeless than to attempt to explain this similarity
of pattern in members of the same class, by utility or by the doctrine
of final causes. The hopelessness of the attempt has been expressly
admitted by Owen in his most interesting work on the 'Nature of Limbs.'
On the ordinary view of the independent creation of each being, we can
only say that so it is;--that it has so pleased the Creator to construct
each animal and plant.

The explanation is manifest on the theory of the natural selection of
successive slight modifications,--each modification being profitable
in some way to the modified form, but often affecting by correlation of
growth other parts of the organisation. In changes of this nature, there
will be little or no tendency to modify the original pattern, or to
transpose parts. The bones of a limb might be shortened and widened to
any extent, and become gradually enveloped in thick membrane, so as to
serve as a fin; or a webbed foot might have all its bones, or certain
bones, lengthened to any extent, and the membrane connecting them
increased to any extent, so as to serve as a wing: yet in all this great
amount of modification there will be no tendency to alter the framework
of bones or the relative connexion of the several parts. If we suppose
that the ancient progenitor, the archetype as it may be called, of all
mammals, had its limbs constructed on the existing general pattern,
for whatever purpose they served, we can at once perceive the plain
signification of the homologous construction of the limbs throughout the
whole class. So with the mouths of insects, we have only to suppose that
their common progenitor had an upper lip, mandibles, and two pair
of maxillae, these parts being perhaps very simple in form; and then
natural selection will account for the infinite diversity in structure
and function of the mouths of insects. Nevertheless, it is conceivable
that the general pattern of an organ might become so much obscured as to
be finally lost, by the atrophy and ultimately by the complete abortion
of certain parts, by the soldering together of other parts, and by the
doubling or multiplication of others,--variations which we know to be
within the limits of possibility. In the paddles of the extinct gigantic
sea-lizards, and in the mouths of certain suctorial crustaceans, the
general pattern seems to have been thus to a certain extent obscured.

There is another and equally curious branch of the present subject;
namely, the comparison not of the same part in different members of a
class, but of the different parts or organs in the same individual.
Most physiologists believe that the bones of the skull are homologous
with--that is correspond in number and in relative connexion with--the
elemental parts of a certain number of vertebrae. The anterior and
posterior limbs in each member of the vertebrate and articulate classes
are plainly homologous. We see the same law in comparing the wonderfully
complex jaws and legs in crustaceans. It is familiar to almost every
one, that in a flower the relative position of the sepals, petals,
stamens, and pistils, as well as their intimate structure, are
intelligible on the view that they consist of metamorphosed leaves,
arranged in a spire. In monstrous plants, we often get direct evidence
of the possibility of one organ being transformed into another; and we
can actually see in embryonic crustaceans and in many other animals, and
in flowers, that organs, which when mature become extremely different,
are at an early stage of growth exactly alike.

How inexplicable are these facts on the ordinary view of creation! Why
should the brain be enclosed in a box composed of such numerous and such
extraordinarily shaped pieces of bone? As Owen has remarked, the
benefit derived from the yielding of the separate pieces in the act of
parturition of mammals, will by no means explain the same construction
in the skulls of birds. Why should similar bones have been created in
the formation of the wing and leg of a bat, used as they are for such
totally different purposes? Why should one crustacean, which has an
extremely complex mouth formed of many parts, consequently always have
fewer legs; or conversely, those with many legs have simpler mouths?
Why should the sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils in any individual
flower, though fitted for such widely different purposes, be all
constructed on the same pattern?

On the theory of natural selection, we can satisfactorily answer these
questions. In the vertebrata, we see a series of internal vertebrae
bearing certain processes and appendages; in the articulata, we see the
body divided into a series of segments, bearing external appendages;
and in flowering plants, we see a series of successive spiral whorls of
leaves. An indefinite repetition of the same part or organ is the common
characteristic (as Owen has observed) of all low or little-modified
forms; therefore we may readily believe that the unknown progenitor of
the vertebrata possessed many vertebrae; the unknown progenitor of
the articulata, many segments; and the unknown progenitor of flowering
plants, many spiral whorls of leaves. We have formerly seen that
parts many times repeated are eminently liable to vary in number and
structure; consequently it is quite probable that natural selection,
during a long-continued course of modification, should have seized on
a certain number of the primordially similar elements, many times
repeated, and have adapted them to the most diverse purposes. And as
the whole amount of modification will have been effected by slight
successive steps, we need not wonder at discovering in such parts or
organs, a certain degree of fundamental resemblance, retained by the
strong principle of inheritance.

In the great class of molluscs, though we can homologise the parts of
one species with those of another and distinct species, we can indicate
but few serial homologies; that is, we are seldom enabled to say that
one part or organ is homologous with another in the same individual. And
we can understand this fact; for in molluscs, even in the lowest members
of the class, we do not find nearly so much indefinite repetition of
any one part, as we find in the other great classes of the animal and
vegetable kingdoms.

Naturalists frequently speak of the skull as formed of metamorphosed
vertebrae: the jaws of crabs as metamorphosed legs; the stamens and
pistils of flowers as metamorphosed leaves; but it would in these cases
probably be more correct, as Professor Huxley has remarked, to speak
of both skull and vertebrae, both jaws and legs, etc.,--as having been
metamorphosed, not one from the other, but from some common element.
Naturalists, however, use such language only in a metaphorical sense:
they are far from meaning that during a long course of descent,
primordial organs of any kind--vertebrae in the one case and legs in the
other--have actually been modified into skulls or jaws. Yet so strong
is the appearance of a modification of this nature having occurred,
that naturalists can hardly avoid employing language having this plain
signification. On my view these terms may be used literally; and the
wonderful fact of the jaws, for instance, of a crab retaining numerous
characters, which they would probably have retained through inheritance,
if they had really been metamorphosed during a long course of descent
from true legs, or from some simple appendage, is explained.

EMBRYOLOGY.

It has already been casually remarked that certain organs in the
individual, which when mature become widely different and serve for
different purposes, are in the embryo exactly alike. The embryos, also,
of distinct animals within the same class are often strikingly similar:
a better proof of this cannot be given, than a circumstance mentioned
by Agassiz, namely, that having forgotten to ticket the embryo of some
vertebrate animal, he cannot now tell whether it be that of a mammal,
bird, or reptile. The vermiform larvae of moths, flies, beetles, etc.,
resemble each other much more closely than do the mature insects; but
in the case of larvae, the embryos are active, and have been adapted
for special lines of life. A trace of the law of embryonic resemblance,
sometimes lasts till a rather late age: thus birds of the same genus,
and of closely allied genera, often resemble each other in their first
and second plumage; as we see in the spotted feathers in the thrush
group. In the cat tribe, most of the species are striped or spotted
in lines; and stripes can be plainly distinguished in the whelp of
the lion. We occasionally though rarely see something of this kind in
plants: thus the embryonic leaves of the ulex or furze, and the first
leaves of the phyllodineous acaceas, are pinnate or divided like the
ordinary leaves of the leguminosae.

The points of structure, in which the embryos of widely different
animals of the same class resemble each other, often have no direct
relation to their conditions of existence. We cannot, for instance,
suppose that in the embryos of the vertebrata the peculiar loop-like
course of the arteries near the branchial slits are related to similar
conditions,--in the young mammal which is nourished in the womb of its
mother, in the egg of the bird which is hatched in a nest, and in the
spawn of a frog under water. We have no more reason to believe in such
a relation, than we have to believe that the same bones in the hand of
a man, wing of a bat, and fin of a porpoise, are related to similar
conditions of life. No one will suppose that the stripes on the whelp
of a lion, or the spots on the young blackbird, are of any use to these
animals, or are related to the conditions to which they are exposed.

The case, however, is different when an animal during any part of its
embryonic career is active, and has to provide for itself. The period of
activity may come on earlier or later in life; but whenever it comes on,
the adaptation of the larva to its conditions of life is just as perfect
and as beautiful as in the adult animal. From such special adaptations,
the similarity of the larvae or active embryos of allied animals is
sometimes much obscured; and cases could be given of the larvae of two
species, or of two groups of species, differing quite as much, or
even more, from each other than do their adult parents. In most cases,
however, the larvae, though active, still obey more or less closely the
law of common embryonic resemblance. Cirripedes afford a good instance
of this: even the illustrious Cuvier did not perceive that a barnacle
was, as it certainly is, a crustacean; but a glance at the larva shows
this to be the case in an unmistakeable manner. So again the two main
divisions of cirripedes, the pedunculated and sessile, which differ
widely in external appearance, have larvae in all their several stages
barely distinguishable.

The embryo in the course of development generally rises in organisation:
I use this expression, though I am aware that it is hardly possible to
define clearly what is meant by the organisation being higher or lower.
But no one probably will dispute that the butterfly is higher than the
caterpillar. In some cases, however, the mature animal is generally
considered as lower in the scale than the larva, as with certain
parasitic crustaceans. To refer once again to cirripedes: the larvae in
the first stage have three pairs of legs, a very simple single eye, and
a probosciformed mouth, with which they feed largely, for they increase
much in size. In the second stage, answering to the chrysalis stage of
butterflies, they have six pairs of beautifully constructed natatory
legs, a pair of magnificent compound eyes, and extremely complex
antennae; but they have a closed and imperfect mouth, and cannot feed:
their function at this stage is, to search by their well-developed
organs of sense, and to reach by their active powers of swimming, a
proper place on which to become attached and to undergo their final
metamorphosis. When this is completed they are fixed for life: their
legs are now converted into prehensile organs; they again obtain a
well-constructed mouth; but they have no antennae, and their two eyes
are now reconverted into a minute, single, and very simple eye-spot.
In this last and complete state, cirripedes may be considered as
either more highly or more lowly organised than they were in the larval
condition. But in some genera the larvae become developed either into
hermaphrodites having the ordinary structure, or into what I have called
complemental males: and in the latter, the development has assuredly
been retrograde; for the male is a mere sack, which lives for a short
time, and is destitute of mouth, stomach, or other organ of importance,
excepting for reproduction.

We are so much accustomed to see differences in structure between the
embryo and the adult, and likewise a close similarity in the embryos of
widely different animals within the same class, that we might be led to
look at these facts as necessarily contingent in some manner on growth.
But there is no obvious reason why, for instance, the wing of a bat, or
the fin of a porpoise, should not have been sketched out with all the
parts in proper proportion, as soon as any structure became visible in
the embryo. And in some whole groups of animals and in certain members
of other groups, the embryo does not at any period differ widely from
the adult: thus Owen has remarked in regard to cuttle-fish, "there is no
metamorphosis; the cephalopodic character is manifested long before
the parts of the embryo are completed;" and again in spiders, "there
is nothing worthy to be called a metamorphosis." The larvae of insects,
whether adapted to the most diverse and active habits, or quite
inactive, being fed by their parents or placed in the midst of proper
nutriment, yet nearly all pass through a similar worm-like stage of
development; but in some few cases, as in that of Aphis, if we look to
the admirable drawings by Professor Huxley of the development of this
insect, we see no trace of the vermiform stage.

How, then, can we explain these several facts in embryology,--namely
the very general, but not universal difference in structure between the
embryo and the adult;--of parts in the same individual embryo, which
ultimately become very unlike and serve for diverse purposes, being
at this early period of growth alike;--of embryos of different species
within the same class, generally, but not universally, resembling each
other;--of the structure of the embryo not being closely related to its
conditions of existence, except when the embryo becomes at any period
of life active and has to provide for itself;--of the embryo apparently
having sometimes a higher organisation than the mature animal, into
which it is developed. I believe that all these facts can be explained,
as follows, on the view of descent with modification.

It is commonly assumed, perhaps from monstrosities often affecting the
embryo at a very early period, that slight variations necessarily
appear at an equally early period. But we have little evidence on
this head--indeed the evidence rather points the other way; for it is
notorious that breeders of cattle, horses, and various fancy animals,
cannot positively tell, until some time after the animal has been born,
what its merits or form will ultimately turn out. We see this plainly in
our own children; we cannot always tell whether the child will be tall
or short, or what its precise features will be. The question is not, at
what period of life any variation has been caused, but at what period
it is fully displayed. The cause may have acted, and I believe generally
has acted, even before the embryo is formed; and the variation may be
due to the male and female sexual elements having been affected by
the conditions to which either parent, or their ancestors, have been
exposed. Nevertheless an effect thus caused at a very early period, even
before the formation of the embryo, may appear late in life; as when
an hereditary disease, which appears in old age alone, has been
communicated to the offspring from the reproductive element of one
parent. Or again, as when the horns of cross-bred cattle have been
affected by the shape of the horns of either parent. For the welfare of
a very young animal, as long as it remains in its mother's womb, or in
the egg, or as long as it is nourished and protected by its parent,
it must be quite unimportant whether most of its characters are fully
acquired a little earlier or later in life. It would not signify, for
instance, to a bird which obtained its food best by having a long beak,
whether or not it assumed a beak of this particular length, as long as
it was fed by its parents. Hence, I conclude, that it is quite possible,
that each of the many successive modifications, by which each species
has acquired its present structure, may have supervened at a not very
early period of life; and some direct evidence from our domestic animals
supports this view. But in other cases it is quite possible that each
successive modification, or most of them, may have appeared at an
extremely early period.

I have stated in the first chapter, that there is some evidence to
render it probable, that at whatever age any variation first appears
in the parent, it tends to reappear at a corresponding age in the
offspring. Certain variations can only appear at corresponding ages, for
instance, peculiarities in the caterpillar, cocoon, or imago states of
the silk-moth; or, again, in the horns of almost full-grown cattle. But
further than this, variations which, for all that we can see, might have
appeared earlier or later in life, tend to appear at a corresponding
age in the offspring and parent. I am far from meaning that this is
invariably the case; and I could give a good many cases of variations
(taking the word in the largest sense) which have supervened at an
earlier age in the child than in the parent.

These two principles, if their truth be admitted, will, I believe,
explain all the above specified leading facts in embryology. But first
let us look at a few analogous cases in domestic varieties. Some authors
who have written on Dogs, maintain that the greyhound and bulldog,
though appearing so different, are really varieties most closely allied,
and have probably descended from the same wild stock; hence I was
curious to see how far their puppies differed from each other: I was
told by breeders that they differed just as much as their parents, and
this, judging by the eye, seemed almost to be the case; but on actually
measuring the old dogs and their six-days old puppies, I found that
the puppies had not nearly acquired their full amount of proportional
difference. So, again, I was told that the foals of cart and race-horses
differed as much as the full-grown animals; and this surprised me
greatly, as I think it probable that the difference between these two
breeds has been wholly caused by selection under domestication; but
having had careful measurements made of the dam and of a three-days old
colt of a race and heavy cart-horse, I find that the colts have by no
means acquired their full amount of proportional difference.

As the evidence appears to me conclusive, that the several domestic
breeds of Pigeon have descended from one wild species, I compared young
pigeons of various breeds, within twelve hours after being hatched; I
carefully measured the proportions (but will not here give details) of
the beak, width of mouth, length of nostril and of eyelid, size of
feet and length of leg, in the wild stock, in pouters, fantails, runts,
barbs, dragons, carriers, and tumblers. Now some of these birds, when
mature, differ so extraordinarily in length and form of beak, that
they would, I cannot doubt, be ranked in distinct genera, had they been
natural productions. But when the nestling birds of these several breeds
were placed in a row, though most of them could be distinguished from
each other, yet their proportional differences in the above specified
several points were incomparably less than in the full-grown birds. Some
characteristic points of difference--for instance, that of the width
of mouth--could hardly be detected in the young. But there was one
remarkable exception to this rule, for the young of the short-faced
tumbler differed from the young of the wild rock-pigeon and of the other
breeds, in all its proportions, almost exactly as much as in the adult
state.

The two principles above given seem to me to explain these facts in
regard to the later embryonic stages of our domestic varieties. Fanciers
select their horses, dogs, and pigeons, for breeding, when they are
nearly grown up: they are indifferent whether the desired qualities
and structures have been acquired earlier or later in life, if the
full-grown animal possesses them. And the cases just given, more
especially that of pigeons, seem to show that the characteristic
differences which give value to each breed, and which have been
accumulated by man's selection, have not generally first appeared at
an early period of life, and have been inherited by the offspring at a
corresponding not early period. But the case of the short-faced tumbler,
which when twelve hours old had acquired its proper proportions,
proves that this is not the universal rule; for here the characteristic
differences must either have appeared at an earlier period than usual,
or, if not so, the differences must have been inherited, not at the
corresponding, but at an earlier age.

Now let us apply these facts and the above two principles--which latter,
though not proved true, can be shown to be in some degree probable--to
species in a state of nature. Let us take a genus of birds, descended
on my theory from some one parent-species, and of which the several new
species have become modified through natural selection in accordance
with their diverse habits. Then, from the many slight successive steps
of variation having supervened at a rather late age, and having been
inherited at a corresponding age, the young of the new species of our
supposed genus will manifestly tend to resemble each other much more
closely than do the adults, just as we have seen in the case of
pigeons. We may extend this view to whole families or even classes. The
fore-limbs, for instance, which served as legs in the parent-species,
may become, by a long course of modification, adapted in one descendant
to act as hands, in another as paddles, in another as wings; and on the
above two principles--namely of each successive modification supervening
at a rather late age, and being inherited at a corresponding late
age--the fore-limbs in the embryos of the several descendants of the
parent-species will still resemble each other closely, for they will not
have been modified. But in each individual new species, the embryonic
fore-limbs will differ greatly from the fore-limbs in the mature animal;
the limbs in the latter having undergone much modification at a rather
late period of life, and having thus been converted into hands, or
paddles, or wings. Whatever influence long-continued exercise or use on
the one hand, and disuse on the other, may have in modifying an organ,
such influence will mainly affect the mature animal, which has come
to its full powers of activity and has to gain its own living; and the
effects thus produced will be inherited at a corresponding mature age.
Whereas the young will remain unmodified, or be modified in a lesser
degree, by the effects of use and disuse.

In certain cases the successive steps of variation might supervene, from
causes of which we are wholly ignorant, at a very early period of life,
or each step might be inherited at an earlier period than that at which
it first appeared. In either case (as with the short-faced tumbler) the
young or embryo would closely resemble the mature parent-form. We have
seen that this is the rule of development in certain whole groups of
animals, as with cuttle-fish and spiders, and with a few members of the
great class of insects, as with Aphis. With respect to the final cause
of the young in these cases not undergoing any metamorphosis, or closely
resembling their parents from their earliest age, we can see that this
would result from the two following contingencies; firstly, from the
young, during a course of modification carried on for many generations,
having to provide for their own wants at a very early stage of
development, and secondly, from their following exactly the same habits
of life with their parents; for in this case, it would be indispensable
for the existence of the species, that the child should be modified at
a very early age in the same manner with its parents, in accordance with
their similar habits. Some further explanation, however, of the embryo
not undergoing any metamorphosis is perhaps requisite. If, on the other
hand, it profited the young to follow habits of life in any degree
different from those of their parent, and consequently to be constructed
in a slightly different manner, then, on the principle of inheritance at
corresponding ages, the active young or larvae might easily be rendered
by natural selection different to any conceivable extent from their
parents. Such differences might, also, become correlated with successive
stages of development; so that the larvae, in the first stage, might
differ greatly from the larvae in the second stage, as we have seen to
be the case with cirripedes. The adult might become fitted for sites or
habits, in which organs of locomotion or of the senses, etc., would be
useless; and in this case the final metamorphosis would be said to be
retrograde.

As all the organic beings, extinct and recent, which have ever lived on
this earth have to be classed together, and as all have been connected
by the finest gradations, the best, or indeed, if our collections were
nearly perfect, the only possible arrangement, would be genealogical.
Descent being on my view the hidden bond of connexion which naturalists
have been seeking under the term of the natural system. On this view
we can understand how it is that, in the eyes of most naturalists, the
structure of the embryo is even more important for classification than
that of the adult. For the embryo is the animal in its less modified
state; and in so far it reveals the structure of its progenitor. In
two groups of animal, however much they may at present differ from each
other in structure and habits, if they pass through the same or similar
embryonic stages, we may feel assured that they have both descended from
the same or nearly similar parents, and are therefore in that degree
closely related. Thus, community in embryonic structure reveals
community of descent. It will reveal this community of descent, however
much the structure of the adult may have been modified and obscured; we
have seen, for instance, that cirripedes can at once be recognised by
their larvae as belonging to the great class of crustaceans. As the
embryonic state of each species and group of species partially shows us
the structure of their less modified ancient progenitors, we can clearly
see why ancient and extinct forms of life should resemble the embryos of
their descendants,--our existing species. Agassiz believes this to be a
law of nature; but I am bound to confess that I only hope to see the
law hereafter proved true. It can be proved true in those cases alone in
which the ancient state, now supposed to be represented in many embryos,
has not been obliterated, either by the successive variations in a long
course of modification having supervened at a very early age, or by the
variations having been inherited at an earlier period than that at which
they first appeared. It should also be borne in mind, that the supposed
law of resemblance of ancient forms of life to the embryonic stages of
recent forms, may be true, but yet, owing to the geological record not
extending far enough back in time, may remain for a long period, or for
ever, incapable of demonstration.

Thus, as it seems to me, the leading facts in embryology, which are
second in importance to none in natural history, are explained on the
principle of slight modifications not appearing, in the many descendants
from some one ancient progenitor, at a very early period in the life of
each, though perhaps caused at the earliest, and being inherited at a
corresponding not early period. Embryology rises greatly in interest,
when we thus look at the embryo as a picture, more or less obscured, of
the common parent-form of each great class of animals.

RUDIMENTARY, ATROPHIED, OR ABORTED ORGANS.

Organs or parts in this strange condition, bearing the stamp of
inutility, are extremely common throughout nature. For instance,
rudimentary mammae are very general in the males of mammals: I presume
that the "bastard-wing" in birds may be safely considered as a digit
in a rudimentary state: in very many snakes one lobe of the lungs is
rudimentary; in other snakes there are rudiments of the pelvis and hind
limbs. Some of the cases of rudimentary organs are extremely curious;
for instance, the presence of teeth in foetal whales, which when grown
up have not a tooth in their heads; and the presence of teeth, which
never cut through the gums, in the upper jaws of our unborn calves. It
has even been stated on good authority that rudiments of teeth can be
detected in the beaks of certain embryonic birds. Nothing can be plainer
than that wings are formed for flight, yet in how many insects do we see
wings so reduced in size as to be utterly incapable of flight, and not
rarely lying under wing-cases, firmly soldered together!

The meaning of rudimentary organs is often quite unmistakeable: for
instance there are beetles of the same genus (and even of the same
species) resembling each other most closely in all respects, one
of which will have full-sized wings, and another mere rudiments of
membrane; and here it is impossible to doubt, that the rudiments
represent wings. Rudimentary organs sometimes retain their potentiality,
and are merely not developed: this seems to be the case with the mammae
of male mammals, for many instances are on record of these organs having
become well developed in full-grown males, and having secreted milk. So
again there are normally four developed and two rudimentary teats in
the udders of the genus Bos, but in our domestic cows the two sometimes
become developed and give milk. In individual plants of the same
species the petals sometimes occur as mere rudiments, and sometimes in
a well-developed state. In plants with separated sexes, the male flowers
often have a rudiment of a pistil; and Kolreuter found that by crossing
such male plants with an hermaphrodite species, the rudiment of the
pistil in the hybrid offspring was much increased in size; and this
shows that the rudiment and the perfect pistil are essentially alike in
nature.

An organ serving for two purposes, may become rudimentary or utterly
aborted for one, even the more important purpose; and remain perfectly
efficient for the other. Thus in plants, the office of the pistil is to
allow the pollen-tubes to reach the ovules protected in the ovarium at
its base. The pistil consists of a stigma supported on the style; but in
some Compositae, the male florets, which of course cannot be fecundated,
have a pistil, which is in a rudimentary state, for it is not crowned
with a stigma; but the style remains well developed, and is clothed with
hairs as in other compositae, for the purpose of brushing the pollen out
of the surrounding anthers. Again, an organ may become rudimentary for
its proper purpose, and be used for a distinct object: in certain fish
the swim-bladder seems to be rudimentary for its proper function of
giving buoyancy, but has become converted into a nascent breathing organ
or lung. Other similar instances could be given.

Rudimentary organs in the individuals of the same species are very
liable to vary in degree of development and in other respects. Moreover,
in closely allied species, the degree to which the same organ has been
rendered rudimentary occasionally differs much. This latter fact is well
exemplified in the state of the wings of the female moths in certain
groups. Rudimentary organs may be utterly aborted; and this implies,
that we find in an animal or plant no trace of an organ, which analogy
would lead us to expect to find, and which is occasionally found
in monstrous individuals of the species. Thus in the snapdragon
(antirrhinum) we generally do not find a rudiment of a fifth stamen; but
this may sometimes be seen. In tracing the homologies of the same
part in different members of a class, nothing is more common, or more
necessary, than the use and discovery of rudiments. This is well shown
in the drawings given by Owen of the bones of the leg of the horse, ox,
and rhinoceros.

It is an important fact that rudimentary organs, such as teeth in the
upper jaws of whales and ruminants, can often be detected in the embryo,
but afterwards wholly disappear. It is also, I believe, a universal
rule, that a rudimentary part or organ is of greater size relatively to
the adjoining parts in the embryo, than in the adult; so that the organ
at this early age is less rudimentary, or even cannot be said to be in
any degree rudimentary. Hence, also, a rudimentary organ in the adult,
is often said to have retained its embryonic condition.

I have now given the leading facts with respect to rudimentary organs.
In reflecting on them, every one must be struck with astonishment: for
the same reasoning power which tells us plainly that most parts and
organs are exquisitely adapted for certain purposes, tells us with equal
plainness that these rudimentary or atrophied organs, are imperfect and
useless. In works on natural history rudimentary organs are generally
said to have been created "for the sake of symmetry," or in order "to
complete the scheme of nature;" but this seems to me no explanation,
merely a restatement of the fact. Would it be thought sufficient to
say that because planets revolve in elliptic courses round the sun,
satellites follow the same course round the planets, for the sake of
symmetry, and to complete the scheme of nature? An eminent physiologist
accounts for the presence of rudimentary organs, by supposing that they
serve to excrete matter in excess, or injurious to the system; but can
we suppose that the minute papilla, which often represents the pistil
in male flowers, and which is formed merely of cellular tissue, can thus
act? Can we suppose that the formation of rudimentary teeth which are
subsequently absorbed, can be of any service to the rapidly growing
embryonic calf by the excretion of precious phosphate of lime? When a
man's fingers have been amputated, imperfect nails sometimes appear on
the stumps: I could as soon believe that these vestiges of nails have
appeared, not from unknown laws of growth, but in order to excrete horny
matter, as that the rudimentary nails on the fin of the manatee were
formed for this purpose.

On my view of descent with modification, the origin of rudimentary
organs is simple. We have plenty of cases of rudimentary organs in our
domestic productions,--as the stump of a tail in tailless breeds,--the
vestige of an ear in earless breeds,--the reappearance of minute
dangling horns in hornless breeds of cattle, more especially, according
to Youatt, in young animals,--and the state of the whole flower in the
cauliflower. We often see rudiments of various parts in monsters. But
I doubt whether any of these cases throw light on the origin of
rudimentary organs in a state of nature, further than by showing that
rudiments can be produced; for I doubt whether species under nature ever
undergo abrupt changes. I believe that disuse has been the main agency;
that it has led in successive generations to the gradual reduction of
various organs, until they have become rudimentary,--as in the case of
the eyes of animals inhabiting dark caverns, and of the wings of birds
inhabiting oceanic islands, which have seldom been forced to take
flight, and have ultimately lost the power of flying. Again, an organ
useful under certain conditions, might become injurious under others,
as with the wings of beetles living on small and exposed islands; and in
this case natural selection would continue slowly to reduce the organ,
until it was rendered harmless and rudimentary.

Any change in function, which can be effected by insensibly small steps,
is within the power of natural selection; so that an organ rendered,
during changed habits of life, useless or injurious for one purpose,
might easily be modified and used for another purpose. Or an organ
might be retained for one alone of its former functions. An organ, when
rendered useless, may well be variable, for its variations cannot be
checked by natural selection. At whatever period of life disuse or
selection reduces an organ, and this will generally be when the being
has come to maturity and to its full powers of action, the principle
of inheritance at corresponding ages will reproduce the organ in its
reduced state at the same age, and consequently will seldom affect or
reduce it in the embryo. Thus we can understand the greater relative
size of rudimentary organs in the embryo, and their lesser relative size
in the adult. But if each step of the process of reduction were to
be inherited, not at the corresponding age, but at an extremely early
period of life (as we have good reason to believe to be possible) the
rudimentary part would tend to be wholly lost, and we should have a case
of complete abortion. The principle, also, of economy, explained in a
former chapter, by which the materials forming any part or structure, if
not useful to the possessor, will be saved as far as is possible, will
probably often come into play; and this will tend to cause the entire
obliteration of a rudimentary organ.

As the presence of rudimentary organs is thus due to the tendency
in every part of the organisation, which has long existed, to
be inherited--we can understand, on the genealogical view of
classification, how it is that systematists have found rudimentary
parts as useful as, or even sometimes more useful than, parts of high
physiological importance. Rudimentary organs may be compared with the
letters in a word, still retained in the spelling, but become useless
in the pronunciation, but which serve as a clue in seeking for its
derivation. On the view of descent with modification, we may conclude
that the existence of organs in a rudimentary, imperfect, and useless
condition, or quite aborted, far from presenting a strange difficulty,
as they assuredly do on the ordinary doctrine of creation, might
even have been anticipated, and can be accounted for by the laws of
inheritance.

SUMMARY.

In this chapter I have attempted to show, that the subordination of
group to group in all organisms throughout all time; that the nature of
the relationship, by which all living and extinct beings are united by
complex, radiating, and circuitous lines of affinities into one
grand system; the rules followed and the difficulties encountered by
naturalists in their classifications; the value set upon characters, if
constant and prevalent, whether of high vital importance, or of the most
trifling importance, or, as in rudimentary organs, of no importance; the
wide opposition in value between analogical or adaptive characters, and
characters of true affinity; and other such rules;--all naturally follow
on the view of the common parentage of those forms which are considered
by naturalists as allied, together with their modification through
natural selection, with its contingencies of extinction and divergence
of character. In considering this view of classification, it should be
borne in mind that the element of descent has been universally used in
ranking together the sexes, ages, and acknowledged varieties of the same
species, however different they may be in structure. If we extend the
use of this element of descent,--the only certainly known cause of
similarity in organic beings,--we shall understand what is meant by the
natural system: it is genealogical in its attempted arrangement,
with the grades of acquired difference marked by the terms varieties,
species, genera, families, orders, and classes.

On this same view of descent with modification, all the great facts in
Morphology become intelligible,--whether we look to the same pattern
displayed in the homologous organs, to whatever purpose applied, of the
different species of a class; or to the homologous parts constructed on
the same pattern in each individual animal and plant.

On the principle of successive slight variations, not necessarily
or generally supervening at a very early period of life, and being
inherited at a corresponding period, we can understand the great leading
facts in Embryology; namely, the resemblance in an individual embryo of
the homologous parts, which when matured will become widely different
from each other in structure and function; and the resemblance in
different species of a class of the homologous parts or organs, though
fitted in the adult members for purposes as different as possible.
Larvae are active embryos, which have become specially modified in
relation to their habits of life, through the principle of modifications
being inherited at corresponding ages. On this same principle--and
bearing in mind, that when organs are reduced in size, either from
disuse or selection, it will generally be at that period of life when
the being has to provide for its own wants, and bearing in mind how
strong is the principle of inheritance--the occurrence of rudimentary
organs and their final abortion, present to us no inexplicable
difficulties; on the contrary, their presence might have been even
anticipated. The importance of embryological characters and of
rudimentary organs in classification is intelligible, on the view that
an arrangement is only so far natural as it is genealogical.

Finally, the several classes of facts which have been considered in
this chapter, seem to me to proclaim so plainly, that the innumerable
species, genera, and families of organic beings, with which this world
is peopled, have all descended, each within its own class or group, from
common parents, and have all been modified in the course of descent,
that I should without hesitation adopt this view, even if it were
unsupported by other facts or arguments.




14. RECAPITULATION AND CONCLUSION.

Recapitulation of the difficulties on the theory of Natural Selection.
Recapitulation of the general and special circumstances in its favour.
Causes of the general belief in the immutability of species. How far the
theory of natural selection may be extended. Effects of its adoption on
the study of Natural history. Concluding remarks.

As this whole volume is one long argument, it may be convenient to the
reader to have the leading facts and inferences briefly recapitulated.

That many and grave objections may be advanced against the theory of
descent with modification through natural selection, I do not deny. I
have endeavoured to give to them their full force. Nothing at first can
appear more difficult to believe than that the more complex organs and
instincts should have been perfected, not by means superior to, though
analogous with, human reason, but by the accumulation of innumerable
slight variations, each good for the individual possessor. Nevertheless,
this difficulty, though appearing to our imagination insuperably great,
cannot be considered real if we admit the following propositions,
namely,--that gradations in the perfection of any organ or instinct,
which we may consider, either do now exist or could have existed, each
good of its kind,--that all organs and instincts are, in ever so slight
a degree, variable,--and, lastly, that there is a struggle for existence
leading to the preservation of each profitable deviation of structure or
instinct. The truth of these propositions cannot, I think, be disputed.

It is, no doubt, extremely difficult even to conjecture by what
gradations many structures have been perfected, more especially amongst
broken and failing groups of organic beings; but we see so many strange
gradations in nature, as is proclaimed by the canon, "Natura non facit
saltum," that we ought to be extremely cautious in saying that any organ
or instinct, or any whole being, could not have arrived at its present
state by many graduated steps. There are, it must be admitted, cases of
special difficulty on the theory of natural selection; and one of the
most curious of these is the existence of two or three defined castes
of workers or sterile females in the same community of ants; but I have
attempted to show how this difficulty can be mastered.

With respect to the almost universal sterility of species when first
crossed, which forms so remarkable a contrast with the almost universal
fertility of varieties when crossed, I must refer the reader to the
recapitulation of the facts given at the end of the eighth chapter,
which seem to me conclusively to show that this sterility is no more
a special endowment than is the incapacity of two trees to be grafted
together, but that it is incidental on constitutional differences in the
reproductive systems of the intercrossed species. We see the truth of
this conclusion in the vast difference in the result, when the same two
species are crossed reciprocally; that is, when one species is first
used as the father and then as the mother.

The fertility of varieties when intercrossed and of their mongrel
offspring cannot be considered as universal; nor is their very general
fertility surprising when we remember that it is not likely that either
their constitutions or their reproductive systems should have been
profoundly modified. Moreover, most of the varieties which have been
experimentised on have been produced under domestication; and as
domestication apparently tends to eliminate sterility, we ought not to
expect it also to produce sterility.

The sterility of hybrids is a very different case from that of first
crosses, for their reproductive organs are more or less functionally
impotent; whereas in first crosses the organs on both sides are in a
perfect condition. As we continually see that organisms of all kinds
are rendered in some degree sterile from their constitutions having been
disturbed by slightly different and new conditions of life, we need
not feel surprise at hybrids being in some degree sterile, for their
constitutions can hardly fail to have been disturbed from being
compounded of two distinct organisations. This parallelism is supported
by another parallel, but directly opposite, class of facts; namely, that
the vigour and fertility of all organic beings are increased by slight
changes in their conditions of life, and that the offspring of slightly
modified forms or varieties acquire from being crossed increased vigour
and fertility. So that, on the one hand, considerable changes in the
conditions of life and crosses between greatly modified forms, lessen
fertility; and on the other hand, lesser changes in the conditions of
life and crosses between less modified forms, increase fertility.

Turning to geographical distribution, the difficulties encountered
on the theory of descent with modification are grave enough. All the
individuals of the same species, and all the species of the same genus,
or even higher group, must have descended from common parents; and
therefore, in however distant and isolated parts of the world they are
now found, they must in the course of successive generations have passed
from some one part to the others. We are often wholly unable even to
conjecture how this could have been effected. Yet, as we have reason to
believe that some species have retained the same specific form for very
long periods, enormously long as measured by years, too much stress
ought not to be laid on the occasional wide diffusion of the same
species; for during very long periods of time there will always be a
good chance for wide migration by many means. A broken or interrupted
range may often be accounted for by the extinction of the species in
the intermediate regions. It cannot be denied that we are as yet very
ignorant of the full extent of the various climatal and geographical
changes which have affected the earth during modern periods; and
such changes will obviously have greatly facilitated migration. As an
example, I have attempted to show how potent has been the influence
of the Glacial period on the distribution both of the same and of
representative species throughout the world. We are as yet profoundly
ignorant of the many occasional means of transport. With respect to
distinct species of the same genus inhabiting very distant and isolated
regions, as the process of modification has necessarily been slow,
all the means of migration will have been possible during a very long
period; and consequently the difficulty of the wide diffusion of species
of the same genus is in some degree lessened.

As on the theory of natural selection an interminable number of
intermediate forms must have existed, linking together all the species
in each group by gradations as fine as our present varieties, it may be
asked, Why do we not see these linking forms all around us? Why are
not all organic beings blended together in an inextricable chaos? With
respect to existing forms, we should remember that we have no right to
expect (excepting in rare cases) to discover DIRECTLY connecting links
between them, but only between each and some extinct and supplanted
form. Even on a wide area, which has during a long period remained
continuous, and of which the climate and other conditions of life change
insensibly in going from a district occupied by one species into another
district occupied by a closely allied species, we have no just right to
expect often to find intermediate varieties in the intermediate zone.
For we have reason to believe that only a few species are undergoing
change at any one period; and all changes are slowly effected. I have
also shown that the intermediate varieties which will at first probably
exist in the intermediate zones, will be liable to be supplanted by the
allied forms on either hand; and the latter, from existing in greater
numbers, will generally be modified and improved at a quicker rate than
the intermediate varieties, which exist in lesser numbers; so that
the intermediate varieties will, in the long run, be supplanted and
exterminated.

On this doctrine of the extermination of an infinitude of connecting
links, between the living and extinct inhabitants of the world, and at
each successive period between the extinct and still older species, why
is not every geological formation charged with such links? Why does
not every collection of fossil remains afford plain evidence of the
gradation and mutation of the forms of life? We meet with no such
evidence, and this is the most obvious and forcible of the many
objections which may be urged against my theory. Why, again, do whole
groups of allied species appear, though certainly they often falsely
appear, to have come in suddenly on the several geological stages? Why
do we not find great piles of strata beneath the Silurian system, stored
with the remains of the progenitors of the Silurian groups of fossils?
For certainly on my theory such strata must somewhere have been
deposited at these ancient and utterly unknown epochs in the world's
history.

I can answer these questions and grave objections only on the
supposition that the geological record is far more imperfect than most
geologists believe. It cannot be objected that there has not been time
sufficient for any amount of organic change; for the lapse of time has
been so great as to be utterly inappreciable by the human intellect. The
number of specimens in all our museums is absolutely as nothing compared
with the countless generations of countless species which certainly have
existed. We should not be able to recognise a species as the parent
of any one or more species if we were to examine them ever so closely,
unless we likewise possessed many of the intermediate links between
their past or parent and present states; and these many links we
could hardly ever expect to discover, owing to the imperfection of the
geological record. Numerous existing doubtful forms could be named which
are probably varieties; but who will pretend that in future ages so
many fossil links will be discovered, that naturalists will be able
to decide, on the common view, whether or not these doubtful forms are
varieties? As long as most of the links between any two species are
unknown, if any one link or intermediate variety be discovered, it will
simply be classed as another and distinct species. Only a small portion
of the world has been geologically explored. Only organic beings of
certain classes can be preserved in a fossil condition, at least in any
great number. Widely ranging species vary most, and varieties are often
at first local,--both causes rendering the discovery of intermediate
links less likely. Local varieties will not spread into other and
distant regions until they are considerably modified and improved; and
when they do spread, if discovered in a geological formation, they will
appear as if suddenly created there, and will be simply classed as new
species. Most formations have been intermittent in their accumulation;
and their duration, I am inclined to believe, has been shorter than the
average duration of specific forms. Successive formations are separated
from each other by enormous blank intervals of time; for fossiliferous
formations, thick enough to resist future degradation, can be
accumulated only where much sediment is deposited on the subsiding bed
of the sea. During the alternate periods of elevation and of stationary
level the record will be blank. During these latter periods there will
probably be more variability in the forms of life; during periods of
subsidence, more extinction.

With respect to the absence of fossiliferous formations beneath the
lowest Silurian strata, I can only recur to the hypothesis given in the
ninth chapter. That the geological record is imperfect all will admit;
but that it is imperfect to the degree which I require, few will be
inclined to admit. If we look to long enough intervals of time, geology
plainly declares that all species have changed; and they have changed in
the manner which my theory requires, for they have changed slowly and
in a graduated manner. We clearly see this in the fossil remains from
consecutive formations invariably being much more closely related to
each other, than are the fossils from formations distant from each other
in time.

Such is the sum of the several chief objections and difficulties
which may justly be urged against my theory; and I have now briefly
recapitulated the answers and explanations which can be given to them. I
have felt these difficulties far too heavily during many years to doubt
their weight. But it deserves especial notice that the more important
objections relate to questions on which we are confessedly ignorant;
nor do we know how ignorant we are. We do not know all the possible
transitional gradations between the simplest and the most perfect
organs; it cannot be pretended that we know all the varied means
of Distribution during the long lapse of years, or that we know how
imperfect the Geological Record is. Grave as these several difficulties
are, in my judgment they do not overthrow the theory of descent with
modification.

Now let us turn to the other side of the argument. Under domestication
we see much variability. This seems to be mainly due to the reproductive
system being eminently susceptible to changes in the conditions of life;
so that this system, when not rendered impotent, fails to reproduce
offspring exactly like the parent-form. Variability is governed by many
complex laws,--by correlation of growth, by use and disuse, and by
the direct action of the physical conditions of life. There is
much difficulty in ascertaining how much modification our domestic
productions have undergone; but we may safely infer that the amount has
been large, and that modifications can be inherited for long periods.
As long as the conditions of life remain the same, we have reason to
believe that a modification, which has already been inherited for many
generations, may continue to be inherited for an almost infinite number
of generations. On the other hand we have evidence that variability,
when it has once come into play, does not wholly cease; for new
varieties are still occasionally produced by our most anciently
domesticated productions.

Man does not actually produce variability; he only unintentionally
exposes organic beings to new conditions of life, and then nature acts
on the organisation, and causes variability. But man can and does select
the variations given to him by nature, and thus accumulate them in any
desired manner. He thus adapts animals and plants for his own benefit or
pleasure. He may do this methodically, or he may do it unconsciously by
preserving the individuals most useful to him at the time, without
any thought of altering the breed. It is certain that he can largely
influence the character of a breed by selecting, in each successive
generation, individual differences so slight as to be quite
inappreciable by an uneducated eye. This process of selection has been
the great agency in the production of the most distinct and useful
domestic breeds. That many of the breeds produced by man have to a large
extent the character of natural species, is shown by the inextricable
doubts whether very many of them are varieties or aboriginal species.

There is no obvious reason why the principles which have acted so
efficiently under domestication should not have acted under nature.
In the preservation of favoured individuals and races, during the
constantly-recurrent Struggle for Existence, we see the most powerful
and ever-acting means of selection. The struggle for existence
inevitably follows from the high geometrical ratio of increase which is
common to all organic beings. This high rate of increase is proved by
calculation, by the effects of a succession of peculiar seasons, and by
the results of naturalisation, as explained in the third chapter. More
individuals are born than can possibly survive. A grain in the balance
will determine which individual shall live and which shall die,--which
variety or species shall increase in number, and which shall decrease,
or finally become extinct. As the individuals of the same species
come in all respects into the closest competition with each other, the
struggle will generally be most severe between them; it will be almost
equally severe between the varieties of the same species, and next in
severity between the species of the same genus. But the struggle will
often be very severe between beings most remote in the scale of nature.
The slightest advantage in one being, at any age or during any season,
over those with which it comes into competition, or better adaptation
in however slight a degree to the surrounding physical conditions, will
turn the balance.

With animals having separated sexes there will in most cases be a
struggle between the males for possession of the females. The most
vigorous individuals, or those which have most successfully struggled
with their conditions of life, will generally leave most progeny. But
success will often depend on having special weapons or means of defence,
or on the charms of the males; and the slightest advantage will lead to
victory.

As geology plainly proclaims that each land has undergone great physical
changes, we might have expected that organic beings would have varied
under nature, in the same way as they generally have varied under the
changed conditions of domestication. And if there be any variability
under nature, it would be an unaccountable fact if natural selection
had not come into play. It has often been asserted, but the assertion is
quite incapable of proof, that the amount of variation under nature is
a strictly limited quantity. Man, though acting on external characters
alone and often capriciously, can produce within a short period a
great result by adding up mere individual differences in his domestic
productions; and every one admits that there are at least individual
differences in species under nature. But, besides such differences, all
naturalists have admitted the existence of varieties, which they think
sufficiently distinct to be worthy of record in systematic works. No one
can draw any clear distinction between individual differences and slight
varieties; or between more plainly marked varieties and sub-species,
and species. Let it be observed how naturalists differ in the rank
which they assign to the many representative forms in Europe and North
America.

If then we have under nature variability and a powerful agent always
ready to act and select, why should we doubt that variations in any way
useful to beings, under their excessively complex relations of life,
would be preserved, accumulated, and inherited? Why, if man can by
patience select variations most useful to himself, should nature fail in
selecting variations useful, under changing conditions of life, to her
living products? What limit can be put to this power, acting during long
ages and rigidly scrutinising the whole constitution, structure, and
habits of each creature,--favouring the good and rejecting the bad? I
can see no limit to this power, in slowly and beautifully adapting
each form to the most complex relations of life. The theory of natural
selection, even if we looked no further than this, seems to me to be in
itself probable. I have already recapitulated, as fairly as I could,
the opposed difficulties and objections: now let us turn to the special
facts and arguments in favour of the theory.

On the view that species are only strongly marked and permanent
varieties, and that each species first existed as a variety, we can
see why it is that no line of demarcation can be drawn between species,
commonly supposed to have been produced by special acts of creation,
and varieties which are acknowledged to have been produced by secondary
laws. On this same view we can understand how it is that in each region
where many species of a genus have been produced, and where they now
flourish, these same species should present many varieties; for where
the manufactory of species has been active, we might expect, as a
general rule, to find it still in action; and this is the case if
varieties be incipient species. Moreover, the species of the larger
genera, which afford the greater number of varieties or incipient
species, retain to a certain degree the character of varieties; for
they differ from each other by a less amount of difference than do the
species of smaller genera. The closely allied species also of the larger
genera apparently have restricted ranges, and they are clustered in
little groups round other species--in which respects they resemble
varieties. These are strange relations on the view of each species
having been independently created, but are intelligible if all species
first existed as varieties.

As each species tends by its geometrical ratio of reproduction to
increase inordinately in number; and as the modified descendants of each
species will be enabled to increase by so much the more as they become
more diversified in habits and structure, so as to be enabled to seize
on many and widely different places in the economy of nature, there
will be a constant tendency in natural selection to preserve the most
divergent offspring of any one species. Hence during a long-continued
course of modification, the slight differences, characteristic of
varieties of the same species, tend to be augmented into the greater
differences characteristic of species of the same genus. New and
improved varieties will inevitably supplant and exterminate the older,
less improved and intermediate varieties; and thus species are rendered
to a large extent defined and distinct objects. Dominant species
belonging to the larger groups tend to give birth to new and dominant
forms; so that each large group tends to become still larger, and at
the same time more divergent in character. But as all groups cannot thus
succeed in increasing in size, for the world would not hold them, the
more dominant groups beat the less dominant. This tendency in the large
groups to go on increasing in size and diverging in character, together
with the almost inevitable contingency of much extinction, explains the
arrangement of all the forms of life, in groups subordinate to groups,
all within a few great classes, which we now see everywhere around us,
and which has prevailed throughout all time. This grand fact of the
grouping of all organic beings seems to me utterly inexplicable on the
theory of creation.

As natural selection acts solely by accumulating slight, successive,
favourable variations, it can produce no great or sudden modification;
it can act only by very short and slow steps. Hence the canon of "Natura
non facit saltum," which every fresh addition to our knowledge tends to
make more strictly correct, is on this theory simply intelligible. We
can plainly see why nature is prodigal in variety, though niggard in
innovation. But why this should be a law of nature if each species has
been independently created, no man can explain.

Many other facts are, as it seems to me, explicable on this theory. How
strange it is that a bird, under the form of woodpecker, should have
been created to prey on insects on the ground; that upland geese, which
never or rarely swim, should have been created with webbed feet; that a
thrush should have been created to dive and feed on sub-aquatic insects;
and that a petrel should have been created with habits and structure
fitting it for the life of an auk or grebe! and so on in endless other
cases. But on the view of each species constantly trying to increase in
number, with natural selection always ready to adapt the slowly varying
descendants of each to any unoccupied or ill-occupied place in nature,
these facts cease to be strange, or perhaps might even have been
anticipated.

As natural selection acts by competition, it adapts the inhabitants
of each country only in relation to the degree of perfection of their
associates; so that we need feel no surprise at the inhabitants of
any one country, although on the ordinary view supposed to have been
specially created and adapted for that country, being beaten and
supplanted by the naturalised productions from another land. Nor ought
we to marvel if all the contrivances in nature be not, as far as we can
judge, absolutely perfect; and if some of them be abhorrent to our ideas
of fitness. We need not marvel at the sting of the bee causing the bee's
own death; at drones being produced in such vast numbers for one
single act, and being then slaughtered by their sterile sisters; at the
astonishing waste of pollen by our fir-trees; at the instinctive hatred
of the queen bee for her own fertile daughters; at ichneumonidae feeding
within the live bodies of caterpillars; and at other such cases. The
wonder indeed is, on the theory of natural selection, that more cases of
the want of absolute perfection have not been observed.

The complex and little known laws governing variation are the same, as
far as we can see, with the laws which have governed the production of
so-called specific forms. In both cases physical conditions seem to have
produced but little direct effect; yet when varieties enter any zone,
they occasionally assume some of the characters of the species proper
to that zone. In both varieties and species, use and disuse seem to have
produced some effect; for it is difficult to resist this conclusion
when we look, for instance, at the logger-headed duck, which has wings
incapable of flight, in nearly the same condition as in the domestic
duck; or when we look at the burrowing tucutucu, which is occasionally
blind, and then at certain moles, which are habitually blind and have
their eyes covered with skin; or when we look at the blind animals
inhabiting the dark caves of America and Europe. In both varieties and
species correlation of growth seems to have played a most important
part, so that when one part has been modified other parts are
necessarily modified. In both varieties and species reversions to
long-lost characters occur. How inexplicable on the theory of creation
is the occasional appearance of stripes on the shoulder and legs of the
several species of the horse-genus and in their hybrids! How simply is
this fact explained if we believe that these species have descended from
a striped progenitor, in the same manner as the several domestic breeds
of pigeon have descended from the blue and barred rock-pigeon!

On the ordinary view of each species having been independently created,
why should the specific characters, or those by which the species of
the same genus differ from each other, be more variable than the generic
characters in which they all agree? Why, for instance, should the colour
of a flower be more likely to vary in any one species of a genus, if
the other species, supposed to have been created independently, have
differently coloured flowers, than if all the species of the genus have
the same coloured flowers? If species are only well-marked varieties,
of which the characters have become in a high degree permanent, we can
understand this fact; for they have already varied since they branched
off from a common progenitor in certain characters, by which they have
come to be specifically distinct from each other; and therefore these
same characters would be more likely still to be variable than the
generic characters which have been inherited without change for an
enormous period. It is inexplicable on the theory of creation why a part
developed in a very unusual manner in any one species of a genus,
and therefore, as we may naturally infer, of great importance to the
species, should be eminently liable to variation; but, on my view, this
part has undergone, since the several species branched off from a common
progenitor, an unusual amount of variability and modification, and
therefore we might expect this part generally to be still variable. But
a part may be developed in the most unusual manner, like the wing of a
bat, and yet not be more variable than any other structure, if the part
be common to many subordinate forms, that is, if it has been inherited
for a very long period; for in this case it will have been rendered
constant by long-continued natural selection.

Glancing at instincts, marvellous as some are, they offer no greater
difficulty than does corporeal structure on the theory of the natural
selection of successive, slight, but profitable modifications. We
can thus understand why nature moves by graduated steps in endowing
different animals of the same class with their several instincts. I have
attempted to show how much light the principle of gradation throws
on the admirable architectural powers of the hive-bee. Habit no doubt
sometimes comes into play in modifying instincts; but it certainly is
not indispensable, as we see, in the case of neuter insects, which leave
no progeny to inherit the effects of long-continued habit. On the view
of all the species of the same genus having descended from a common
parent, and having inherited much in common, we can understand how it is
that allied species, when placed under considerably different conditions
of life, yet should follow nearly the same instincts; why the thrush of
South America, for instance, lines her nest with mud like our British
species. On the view of instincts having been slowly acquired through
natural selection we need not marvel at some instincts being apparently
not perfect and liable to mistakes, and at many instincts causing other
animals to suffer.

If species be only well-marked and permanent varieties, we can at once
see why their crossed offspring should follow the same complex laws
in their degrees and kinds of resemblance to their parents,--in being
absorbed into each other by successive crosses, and in other such
points,--as do the crossed offspring of acknowledged varieties. On
the other hand, these would be strange facts if species have been
independently created, and varieties have been produced by secondary
laws.

If we admit that the geological record is imperfect in an extreme
degree, then such facts as the record gives, support the theory of
descent with modification. New species have come on the stage slowly and
at successive intervals; and the amount of change, after equal intervals
of time, is widely different in different groups. The extinction of
species and of whole groups of species, which has played so conspicuous
a part in the history of the organic world, almost inevitably follows on
the principle of natural selection; for old forms will be supplanted
by new and improved forms. Neither single species nor groups of species
reappear when the chain of ordinary generation has once been broken. The
gradual diffusion of dominant forms, with the slow modification of their
descendants, causes the forms of life, after long intervals of time, to
appear as if they had changed simultaneously throughout the world.
The fact of the fossil remains of each formation being in some degree
intermediate in character between the fossils in the formations above
and below, is simply explained by their intermediate position in the
chain of descent. The grand fact that all extinct organic beings belong
to the same system with recent beings, falling either into the same or
into intermediate groups, follows from the living and the extinct being
the offspring of common parents. As the groups which have descended
from an ancient progenitor have generally diverged in character, the
progenitor with its early descendants will often be intermediate in
character in comparison with its later descendants; and thus we can see
why the more ancient a fossil is, the oftener it stands in some degree
intermediate between existing and allied groups. Recent forms are
generally looked at as being, in some vague sense, higher than ancient
and extinct forms; and they are in so far higher as the later and more
improved forms have conquered the older and less improved organic beings
in the struggle for life. Lastly, the law of the long endurance of
allied forms on the same continent,--of marsupials in Australia, of
edentata in America, and other such cases,--is intelligible, for within
a confined country, the recent and the extinct will naturally be allied
by descent.

Looking to geographical distribution, if we admit that there has been
during the long course of ages much migration from one part of the world
to another, owing to former climatal and geographical changes and to the
many occasional and unknown means of dispersal, then we can understand,
on the theory of descent with modification, most of the great leading
facts in Distribution. We can see why there should be so striking a
parallelism in the distribution of organic beings throughout space, and
in their geological succession throughout time; for in both cases the
beings have been connected by the bond of ordinary generation, and the
means of modification have been the same. We see the full meaning of the
wonderful fact, which must have struck every traveller, namely, that on
the same continent, under the most diverse conditions, under heat and
cold, on mountain and lowland, on deserts and marshes, most of the
inhabitants within each great class are plainly related; for they will
generally be descendants of the same progenitors and early colonists.
On this same principle of former migration, combined in most cases with
modification, we can understand, by the aid of the Glacial period, the
identity of some few plants, and the close alliance of many others,
on the most distant mountains, under the most different climates; and
likewise the close alliance of some of the inhabitants of the sea in
the northern and southern temperate zones, though separated by the whole
intertropical ocean. Although two areas may present the same physical
conditions of life, we need feel no surprise at their inhabitants
being widely different, if they have been for a long period completely
separated from each other; for as the relation of organism to organism
is the most important of all relations, and as the two areas will have
received colonists from some third source or from each other, at various
periods and in different proportions, the course of modification in the
two areas will inevitably be different.

On this view of migration, with subsequent modification, we can see why
oceanic islands should be inhabited by few species, but of these, that
many should be peculiar. We can clearly see why those animals which
cannot cross wide spaces of ocean, as frogs and terrestrial mammals,
should not inhabit oceanic islands; and why, on the other hand, new and
peculiar species of bats, which can traverse the ocean, should so often
be found on islands far distant from any continent. Such facts as the
presence of peculiar species of bats, and the absence of all other
mammals, on oceanic islands, are utterly inexplicable on the theory of
independent acts of creation.

The existence of closely allied or representative species in any two
areas, implies, on the theory of descent with modification, that the
same parents formerly inhabited both areas; and we almost invariably
find that wherever many closely allied species inhabit two areas, some
identical species common to both still exist. Wherever many closely
allied yet distinct species occur, many doubtful forms and varieties of
the same species likewise occur. It is a rule of high generality that
the inhabitants of each area are related to the inhabitants of the
nearest source whence immigrants might have been derived. We see this in
nearly all the plants and animals of the Galapagos archipelago, of Juan
Fernandez, and of the other American islands being related in the most
striking manner to the plants and animals of the neighbouring American
mainland; and those of the Cape de Verde archipelago and other African
islands to the African mainland. It must be admitted that these facts
receive no explanation on the theory of creation.

The fact, as we have seen, that all past and present organic beings
constitute one grand natural system, with group subordinate to group,
and with extinct groups often falling in between recent groups, is
intelligible on the theory of natural selection with its contingencies
of extinction and divergence of character. On these same principles
we see how it is, that the mutual affinities of the species and genera
within each class are so complex and circuitous. We see why certain
characters are far more serviceable than others for classification;--why
adaptive characters, though of paramount importance to the being, are
of hardly any importance in classification; why characters derived from
rudimentary parts, though of no service to the being, are often of high
classificatory value; and why embryological characters are the most
valuable of all. The real affinities of all organic beings are due
to inheritance or community of descent. The natural system is a
genealogical arrangement, in which we have to discover the lines of
descent by the most permanent characters, however slight their vital
importance may be.

The framework of bones being the same in the hand of a man, wing of
a bat, fin of the porpoise, and leg of the horse,--the same number of
vertebrae forming the neck of the giraffe and of the elephant,--and
innumerable other such facts, at once explain themselves on the theory
of descent with slow and slight successive modifications. The similarity
of pattern in the wing and leg of a bat, though used for such different
purpose,--in the jaws and legs of a crab,--in the petals, stamens, and
pistils of a flower, is likewise intelligible on the view of the
gradual modification of parts or organs, which were alike in the early
progenitor of each class. On the principle of successive variations
not always supervening at an early age, and being inherited at a
corresponding not early period of life, we can clearly see why the
embryos of mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes should be so closely
alike, and should be so unlike the adult forms. We may cease marvelling
at the embryo of an air-breathing mammal or bird having branchial slits
and arteries running in loops, like those in a fish which has to breathe
the air dissolved in water, by the aid of well-developed branchiae.

Disuse, aided sometimes by natural selection, will often tend to reduce
an organ, when it has become useless by changed habits or under changed
conditions of life; and we can clearly understand on this view the
meaning of rudimentary organs. But disuse and selection will generally
act on each creature, when it has come to maturity and has to play its
full part in the struggle for existence, and will thus have little power
of acting on an organ during early life; hence the organ will not be
much reduced or rendered rudimentary at this early age. The calf, for
instance, has inherited teeth, which never cut through the gums of the
upper jaw, from an early progenitor having well-developed teeth; and we
may believe, that the teeth in the mature animal were reduced, during
successive generations, by disuse or by the tongue and palate having
been fitted by natural selection to browse without their aid; whereas in
the calf, the teeth have been left untouched by selection or disuse,
and on the principle of inheritance at corresponding ages have been
inherited from a remote period to the present day. On the view of each
organic being and each separate organ having been specially created, how
utterly inexplicable it is that parts, like the teeth in the embryonic
calf or like the shrivelled wings under the soldered wing-covers of some
beetles, should thus so frequently bear the plain stamp of inutility!
Nature may be said to have taken pains to reveal, by rudimentary organs
and by homologous structures, her scheme of modification, which it seems
that we wilfully will not understand.

I have now recapitulated the chief facts and considerations which have
thoroughly convinced me that species have changed, and are still slowly
changing by the preservation and accumulation of successive slight
favourable variations. Why, it may be asked, have all the most eminent
living naturalists and geologists rejected this view of the mutability
of species? It cannot be asserted that organic beings in a state of
nature are subject to no variation; it cannot be proved that the amount
of variation in the course of long ages is a limited quantity; no clear
distinction has been, or can be, drawn between species and well-marked
varieties. It cannot be maintained that species when intercrossed are
invariably sterile, and varieties invariably fertile; or that sterility
is a special endowment and sign of creation. The belief that species
were immutable productions was almost unavoidable as long as the history
of the world was thought to be of short duration; and now that we have
acquired some idea of the lapse of time, we are too apt to assume,
without proof, that the geological record is so perfect that it would
have afforded us plain evidence of the mutation of species, if they had
undergone mutation.

But the chief cause of our natural unwillingness to admit that one
species has given birth to other and distinct species, is that we are
always slow in admitting any great change of which we do not see the
intermediate steps. The difficulty is the same as that felt by so many
geologists, when Lyell first insisted that long lines of inland cliffs
had been formed, and great valleys excavated, by the slow action of the
coast-waves. The mind cannot possibly grasp the full meaning of the
term of a hundred million years; it cannot add up and perceive the full
effects of many slight variations, accumulated during an almost infinite
number of generations.

Although I am fully convinced of the truth of the views given in this
volume under the form of an abstract, I by no means expect to convince
experienced naturalists whose minds are stocked with a multitude of
facts all viewed, during a long course of years, from a point of view
directly opposite to mine. It is so easy to hide our ignorance under
such expressions as the "plan of creation," "unity of design," etc., and
to think that we give an explanation when we only restate a fact. Any
one whose disposition leads him to attach more weight to unexplained
difficulties than to the explanation of a certain number of facts
will certainly reject my theory. A few naturalists, endowed with
much flexibility of mind, and who have already begun to doubt on the
immutability of species, may be influenced by this volume; but I look
with confidence to the future, to young and rising naturalists, who will
be able to view both sides of the question with impartiality. Whoever
is led to believe that species are mutable will do good service by
conscientiously expressing his conviction; for only thus can the load of
prejudice by which this subject is overwhelmed be removed.

Several eminent naturalists have of late published their belief that
a multitude of reputed species in each genus are not real species; but
that other species are real, that is, have been independently created.
This seems to me a strange conclusion to arrive at. They admit that
a multitude of forms, which till lately they themselves thought were
special creations, and which are still thus looked at by the majority of
naturalists, and which consequently have every external characteristic
feature of true species,--they admit that these have been produced by
variation, but they refuse to extend the same view to other and very
slightly different forms. Nevertheless they do not pretend that they
can define, or even conjecture, which are the created forms of life, and
which are those produced by secondary laws. They admit variation as a
vera causa in one case, they arbitrarily reject it in another, without
assigning any distinction in the two cases. The day will come when this
will be given as a curious illustration of the blindness of preconceived
opinion. These authors seem no more startled at a miraculous act of
creation than at an ordinary birth. But do they really believe that at
innumerable periods in the earth's history certain elemental atoms have
been commanded suddenly to flash into living tissues? Do they believe
that at each supposed act of creation one individual or many were
produced? Were all the infinitely numerous kinds of animals and plants
created as eggs or seed, or as full grown? and in the case of mammals,
were they created bearing the false marks of nourishment from the
mother's womb? Although naturalists very properly demand a full
explanation of every difficulty from those who believe in the mutability
of species, on their own side they ignore the whole subject of the first
appearance of species in what they consider reverent silence.

It may be asked how far I extend the doctrine of the modification of
species. The question is difficult to answer, because the more distinct
the forms are which we may consider, by so much the arguments fall away
in force. But some arguments of the greatest weight extend very far.
All the members of whole classes can be connected together by chains of
affinities, and all can be classified on the same principle, in groups
subordinate to groups. Fossil remains sometimes tend to fill up
very wide intervals between existing orders. Organs in a rudimentary
condition plainly show that an early progenitor had the organ in a
fully developed state; and this in some instances necessarily implies
an enormous amount of modification in the descendants. Throughout whole
classes various structures are formed on the same pattern, and at an
embryonic age the species closely resemble each other. Therefore I
cannot doubt that the theory of descent with modification embraces all
the members of the same class. I believe that animals have descended
from at most only four or five progenitors, and plants from an equal or
lesser number.

Analogy would lead me one step further, namely, to the belief that all
animals and plants have descended from some one prototype. But analogy
may be a deceitful guide. Nevertheless all living things have much in
common, in their chemical composition, their germinal vesicles, their
cellular structure, and their laws of growth and reproduction. We see
this even in so trifling a circumstance as that the same poison often
similarly affects plants and animals; or that the poison secreted by
the gall-fly produces monstrous growths on the wild rose or oak-tree.
Therefore I should infer from analogy that probably all the organic
beings which have ever lived on this earth have descended from some
one primordial form, into which life was first breathed. When the views
entertained in this volume on the origin of species, or when analogous
views are generally admitted, we can dimly foresee that there will be a
considerable revolution in natural history. Systematists will be able
to pursue their labours as at present; but they will not be incessantly
haunted by the shadowy doubt whether this or that form be in essence
a species. This I feel sure, and I speak after experience, will be no
slight relief. The endless disputes whether or not some fifty species
of British brambles are true species will cease. Systematists will
have only to decide (not that this will be easy) whether any form be
sufficiently constant and distinct from other forms, to be capable of
definition; and if definable, whether the differences be sufficiently
important to deserve a specific name. This latter point will become a
far more essential consideration than it is at present; for differences,
however slight, between any two forms, if not blended by intermediate
gradations, are looked at by most naturalists as sufficient to raise
both forms to the rank of species. Hereafter we shall be compelled to
acknowledge that the only distinction between species and well-marked
varieties is, that the latter are known, or believed, to be connected
at the present day by intermediate gradations, whereas species
were formerly thus connected. Hence, without quite rejecting the
consideration of the present existence of intermediate gradations
between any two forms, we shall be led to weigh more carefully and to
value higher the actual amount of difference between them. It is quite
possible that forms now generally acknowledged to be merely varieties
may hereafter be thought worthy of specific names, as with the primrose
and cowslip; and in this case scientific and common language will come
into accordance. In short, we shall have to treat species in the same
manner as those naturalists treat genera, who admit that genera are
merely artificial combinations made for convenience. This may not be a
cheering prospect; but we shall at least be freed from the vain search
for the undiscovered and undiscoverable essence of the term species.

The other and more general departments of natural history will rise
greatly in interest. The terms used by naturalists of affinity,
relationship, community of type, paternity, morphology, adaptive
characters, rudimentary and aborted organs, etc., will cease to be
metaphorical, and will have a plain signification. When we no longer
look at an organic being as a savage looks at a ship, as at something
wholly beyond his comprehension; when we regard every production of
nature as one which has had a history; when we contemplate every complex
structure and instinct as the summing up of many contrivances, each
useful to the possessor, nearly in the same way as when we look at
any great mechanical invention as the summing up of the labour, the
experience, the reason, and even the blunders of numerous workmen; when
we thus view each organic being, how far more interesting, I speak from
experience, will the study of natural history become!

A grand and almost untrodden field of inquiry will be opened, on the
causes and laws of variation, on correlation of growth, on the effects
of use and disuse, on the direct action of external conditions, and so
forth. The study of domestic productions will rise immensely in value.
A new variety raised by man will be a far more important and interesting
subject for study than one more species added to the infinitude of
already recorded species. Our classifications will come to be, as far as
they can be so made, genealogies; and will then truly give what may be
called the plan of creation. The rules for classifying will no doubt
become simpler when we have a definite object in view. We possess no
pedigrees or armorial bearings; and we have to discover and trace
the many diverging lines of descent in our natural genealogies, by
characters of any kind which have long been inherited. Rudimentary
organs will speak infallibly with respect to the nature of long-lost
structures. Species and groups of species, which are called aberrant,
and which may fancifully be called living fossils, will aid us in
forming a picture of the ancient forms of life. Embryology will reveal
to us the structure, in some degree obscured, of the prototypes of each
great class.

When we can feel assured that all the individuals of the same species,
and all the closely allied species of most genera, have within a not
very remote period descended from one parent, and have migrated
from some one birthplace; and when we better know the many means
of migration, then, by the light which geology now throws, and will
continue to throw, on former changes of climate and of the level of the
land, we shall surely be enabled to trace in an admirable manner
the former migrations of the inhabitants of the whole world. Even at
present, by comparing the differences of the inhabitants of the sea
on the opposite sides of a continent, and the nature of the various
inhabitants of that continent in relation to their apparent means of
immigration, some light can be thrown on ancient geography.

The noble science of Geology loses glory from the extreme imperfection
of the record. The crust of the earth with its embedded remains must not
be looked at as a well-filled museum, but as a poor collection made
at hazard and at rare intervals. The accumulation of each great
fossiliferous formation will be recognised as having depended on an
unusual concurrence of circumstances, and the blank intervals between
the successive stages as having been of vast duration. But we shall be
able to gauge with some security the duration of these intervals by a
comparison of the preceding and succeeding organic forms. We must be
cautious in attempting to correlate as strictly contemporaneous
two formations, which include few identical species, by the general
succession of their forms of life. As species are produced and
exterminated by slowly acting and still existing causes, and not
by miraculous acts of creation and by catastrophes; and as the most
important of all causes of organic change is one which is almost
independent of altered and perhaps suddenly altered physical conditions,
namely, the mutual relation of organism to organism,--the improvement of
one being entailing the improvement or the extermination of others; it
follows, that the amount of organic change in the fossils of consecutive
formations probably serves as a fair measure of the lapse of actual
time. A number of species, however, keeping in a body might remain for a
long period unchanged, whilst within this same period, several of these
species, by migrating into new countries and coming into competition
with foreign associates, might become modified; so that we must not
overrate the accuracy of organic change as a measure of time. During
early periods of the earth's history, when the forms of life were
probably fewer and simpler, the rate of change was probably slower; and
at the first dawn of life, when very few forms of the simplest structure
existed, the rate of change may have been slow in an extreme degree. The
whole history of the world, as at present known, although of a length
quite incomprehensible by us, will hereafter be recognised as a mere
fragment of time, compared with the ages which have elapsed since
the first creature, the progenitor of innumerable extinct and living
descendants, was created.

In the distant future I see open fields for far more important
researches. Psychology will be based on a new foundation, that of the
necessary acquirement of each mental power and capacity by gradation.
Light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history.

Authors of the highest eminence seem to be fully satisfied with the view
that each species has been independently created. To my mind it accords
better with what we know of the laws impressed on matter by the Creator,
that the production and extinction of the past and present inhabitants
of the world should have been due to secondary causes, like those
determining the birth and death of the individual. When I view all
beings not as special creations, but as the lineal descendants of some
few beings which lived long before the first bed of the Silurian system
was deposited, they seem to me to become ennobled. Judging from the
past, we may safely infer that not one living species will transmit its
unaltered likeness to a distant futurity. And of the species now living
very few will transmit progeny of any kind to a far distant futurity;
for the manner in which all organic beings are grouped, shows that the
greater number of species of each genus, and all the species of many
genera, have left no descendants, but have become utterly extinct. We
can so far take a prophetic glance into futurity as to foretel that it
will be the common and widely-spread species, belonging to the larger
and dominant groups, which will ultimately prevail and procreate new
and dominant species. As all the living forms of life are the lineal
descendants of those which lived long before the Silurian epoch, we may
feel certain that the ordinary succession by generation has never once
been broken, and that no cataclysm has desolated the whole world.
Hence we may look with some confidence to a secure future of equally
inappreciable length. And as natural selection works solely by and for
the good of each being, all corporeal and mental endowments will tend to
progress towards perfection.

It is interesting to contemplate an entangled bank, clothed with many
plants of many kinds, with birds singing on the bushes, with various
insects flitting about, and with worms crawling through the damp earth,
and to reflect that these elaborately constructed forms, so different
from each other, and dependent on each other in so complex a manner,
have all been produced by laws acting around us. These laws, taken in
the largest sense, being Growth with Reproduction; Inheritance which is
almost implied by reproduction; Variability from the indirect and direct
action of the external conditions of life, and from use and disuse; a
Ratio of Increase so high as to lead to a Struggle for Life, and as a
consequence to Natural Selection, entailing Divergence of Character and
the Extinction of less-improved forms. Thus, from the war of nature,
from famine and death, the most exalted object which we are capable
of conceiving, namely, the production of the higher animals, directly
follows. There is grandeur in this view of life, with its several
powers, having been originally breathed into a few forms or into one;
and that, whilst this planet has gone cycling on according to the fixed
law of gravity, from so simple a beginning endless forms most beautiful
and most wonderful have been, and are being, evolved.
